27 US Museums                                                                            
                                                                                                                  
  - DC: 
NMAAHC  
General museum link: https://nmaahc.si.edu/?s_src=H2604PWA1CCLB&mccid=875571&j=875571&sfmc_sub=117690668&l=1000_HTML&u=11299435&mid=546013432&jb=1 
Ticket link: https://nmaahc.si.edu/visit/plan-your-visit 
Admissions info: 
Free Timed-Entry Passes 
All visitors, regardless of age, must have a timed-entry pass to enter the museum.
A limited number of timed-entry passes are available.
Advance timed-entry passes are released 30 days in advance on a rolling basis.
Same-day timed-entry passes are released online only by 8:15 a.m. EST daily.
Timed-entry passes may not be sold or transferred and are for personal use only.
Individuals can reserve up to nine free timed-entry passes for their visit. For groups of 10 or more, please reserve group passes.
We are honored to welcome veterans, active-duty personnel, and first responders to the museum. You do not need to register for a timed entry pass in advance. Upon arrival, you will simply present a valid military or work ID badge and complete a brief registration form for entry. You may bring up to 4 guests.
Please note: museum entry is subject to building capacity; weekends and holidays are peak visitation times. If the museum is at or near capacity, all visitors standing in line will be asked to wait until the museum has room to accommodate them. 
Additional Information 
All children (under the age of 18) must be accompanied by an adult chaperone. When accompanying children, one (1) adult can chaperone up to a maximum of ten (10) children. 
Timed-entry passes are valid only for the issued date. Passes are void if altered.
Visitors can print timed-entry passes at home or present them on a mobile device. All passes will be scanned prior to entering the museum on Madison Drive or Constitution Ave.
If you cannot visit the museum on your scheduled date, please email NMAAHCVisitorServices@si.edu to return or exchange your passes.
Register or log in to your Smithsonian account to access and manage your free timed-entry passes.
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://nmaahc.si.edu/explore/exhibitions 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL 

Cultural Expressions
Permanent Exhibit (no end date)
Level 4 (L4), Culture Galleries
Cultural Expressions is a circular, experiential, introductory space to African American and African diaspora culture. Cultural Expressions highlights the central role of African American culture in everyday life, from food and fashion to music and language.
https://nmaahc.si.edu/explore/exhibitions/cultural-expressions 

Musical Crossroads
Permanent Exhibit (no end date)
Level 4 (L4), Culture Galleries
Musical Crossroads tells the story of African American music from the arrival of the first Africans to the present day. Musical Crossroads is the space where history and culture intermingle, where music serves as the crossroads between the interpretation of musical styles and traditions and the stories of cultural survivals, individual accomplishments, and social progress.
https://nmaahc.si.edu/explore/exhibitions/musical-crossroads 

Taking the Stage
Long-term Exhibit
Level 4 (L4), Culture Galleries
Taking the Stage explores the history of African Americans in theater, film, and television to celebrate their creative achievements, demonstrate their cultural impact, and illuminate their struggles for artistic freedom and equal representation.Throughout the exhibition, visitors see how African Americans have acted to shape and transform the ways they are represented onstage by challenging racial discrimination and stereotypes and producing more diverse images of African American identity and experience. Together these stories suggest how, in taking the stage to express their creative talents, artistic visions, and cultural identities, African Americans have been a force for freedom and social change.
https://nmaahc.si.edu/explore/exhibitions/taking-stage 

Making a Way Out of No Way
Permanent Exhibit (no end date)
Level 3 (L3), Community Galleries 
Taking its inspiration from a popular African American expression, Making a Way Out of No Way explores themes of agency, creativity, and resilience through personal stories of African Americans who challenged racial oppression and discrimination and created ways out of “no way.” Through community institutions and activism, African Americans crafted possibilities in a world that denied them opportunities.
https://nmaahc.si.edu/explore/exhibitions/making-way-out-no-way 

Double Victory
Permanent Exhibit (no end date)
Level 3 (L3), General Colin L. Powell Gallery
Double Victory: The African American Military Experience conveys a sense of appreciation and respect for the military service of African Americans from the American Revolution to the War on Terror. In choosing to serve in the military, African Americans sought to have their service understood by the nation as a demand for liberty and citizenship. African American men and women who engaged in the military made their service useful not only for the good of their country, but to benefit both their personal lives and their community.
https://nmaahc.si.edu/explore/exhibitions/double-victory 
Power of Place
Permanent Exhibit (no end date)
Level 3 (L3), Community Galleries 
Power of Place explores stories of place from across the nation and the African American experience. People make places even as places change people. Places are secured by individual and collective struggle and spirit. Place is about movement, migration, and displacement. Place is where culture is made, traditions and histories are kept and lost, and identities are created, tested, and reshaped over time.
https://nmaahc.si.edu/explore/exhibitions/power-place 

Sports
Permanent Exhibit (no end date)
Level 3 (L3), Community Galleries
Sports: Leveling the Playing Field explores the contributions of athletes, both on and off the field. Some athletes have been symbolic figures of Black ability, while others have taken their activism beyond the court to the courtroom, boardroom and the newsroom. Because sports were among the first, and most high profile spaces to accept African Americans on relative terms of equality, sport has had a unique role within American culture. Within black communities, sports have always been political. From the refusal to allow African Americans an opportunity to compete to the formation of African American segregated sporting teams and leagues; from the hard won battles to compete at the highest levels of the game to the introduction of African American expressive cultural practices within the games, the African American presence in sports has had social and political consequences.
https://nmaahc.si.edu/explore/exhibitions/sports 

Explore More!
Permanent Exhibit (no end date)
Level 2 (L2), Target Learning Center, Earl W. and Amanda Stafford Center for African American Media Arts and Robert Frederick Smith Explore Your Family History Center
Explore More! is an interactive, multifaceted educational space dedicated to helping visitors connect and engage with African American history and culture in ways that expand perspectives, spark curiosity and creativity, and increase knowledge. 
https://nmaahc.si.edu/explore/exhibitions/explore-more 


Spirit in the Dark
NOV 18 2022 - MAR 2027
Level 2 (L2), Earl W. and Amanda Stafford Center for African American Media Arts (CAAMA) Gallery
Spirit in the Dark examines Black religious life through a selection of photographs from the Johnson Publishing Company, publisher of Ebony, Jet and Negro Digest. Diverse aspects of the Black religious experience are revealed through photographs and stories.
https://nmaahc.si.edu/explore/exhibitions/spirit-dark-black-religious-life 

More Than a Flower
JAN 30 2026 - APR 26 2026
Level 2 (L2), Explore More! Gallery
More than a Flower shares the fresh and fragrant beauty of live orchids and connects stories, scholarship and art to this extraordinary species. Explore the many ways orchids connect individuals, communities and nature. Through video demonstrations of orchid care and a daily interactive orchid discovery station, visitors will learn how to easily and properly care for their own orchids and more.
https://nmaahc.si.edu/explore/exhibitions/more-flower 

A Century in the Making
Permanent Exhibit (no end date)
Concourse Level (C)
A Century in the Making explores the journey to open the newest Smithsonian museum on the National Mall. This exhibition chronicles the century-long struggle, many attempts and numerous steps to realize the opening of the museum—including the activism of private citizens and organizations, passage of federal legislation, construction of an inspiring new building and collecting thousands of artifacts.
https://nmaahc.si.edu/explore/exhibitions/century-making 

At the Vanguard
JAN 16 2026 - JUL 19 2026
Concourse Level (C), Bank of America Special Exhibitions Gallery 
At the Vanguard weaves together stories of ingenuity, artistry and resistance — through collections from Clark Atlanta University, Florida A&M University, Jackson State University, Texas Southern University and Tuskegee University. Explore stories of creativity, resilience, and legacy through rare collections of our five Historically Black Colleges and Universities partners. This exhibition celebrates how HBCUs preserve history—and shape the future. Be where history lives. Join us at the vanguard.
https://nmaahc.si.edu/explore/exhibitions/vanguard 

A Changing America
Permanent Exhibit (no end date)
Concourse 1 (C1), History Galleries
A Changing America: 1968 and Beyond explores contemporary black life through stories about the social, economic, political, and cultural experiences of African Americans. This exhibition considers the challenges faced by African Americans—challenges compounded by experiences of class, gender, and immigration—as they continue to fight for racial equity and social justice, issues as relevant to the 21st century as to the 20th. 
https://nmaahc.si.edu/explore/exhibitions/changing-america 

Defending Freedom, Defining Freedom
Permanent Exhibit (no end date)
Concourse 2 (C2), History Galleries
Defending Freedom, Defining Freedom: The Era of Segregation 1876-1968 captures the major aspects of that struggle and illustrates how African Americans not only survived the challenges set before them, but crafted an important role for themselves in the nation. The years after the Civil War were both hopeful and worrisome for African Americans. With the end of slavery, Black Americans had hoped to attain full citizenship. Instead, they found themselves resisting a new form of discrimination—segregation.
https://nmaahc.si.edu/explore/exhibitions/defending-freedom-defining-freedom 

Slavery and Freedom
Permanent Exhibit (no end date)
Concourse 3 (C3), History Galleries
Slavery and Freedom explores the complex story of slavery and freedom, which rests at the core of our nation’s shared history. Explore the history of slavery in the U.S. and the stories of African Americans whose struggles for freedom shaped the nation.
https://nmaahc.si.edu/explore/exhibitions/slavery-and-freedom 

    
Hirshhorn 
General museum link: https://hirshhorn.si.edu/ 
Ticket link: Free (no ticket or timed passes necessary) / for special exhibitions or events, check the Hirshhorn official calender 
Admissions info: 
Free Admission
Open Daily  
Monday | Noon–5:30 PM 
Tuesday–Sunday | 10 AM–5:30 PM 
Closed December 25
Plan your visit! Make the most of your Hirshhorn experience. 
Print visitors’ guides and Kids guides are available at the Welcome Desk in the Lobby for a $2 suggested donation. 
The Hirshhorn’s campus, exhibitions, and public programs are accessible. If you have questions or if there is anything we can do to tailor your visit or make it more inclusive for anyone in your group, we’d like to hear from you at HirshhornExperience@si.edu. 
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://hirshhorn.si.edu/exhibitions-events/ 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL      

Basquiat x Banksy
SEP 29 2024 - SEP 7 2026
Lower Level
Basquiat × Banksy is an exhibition of two major paintings, one by Jean-Michel Basquiat (b. Brooklyn, New York, 1960–1988) and the other by Banksy (anonymous; b. near Bristol, England). Placed in dialogue, Basquiat’s Boy and Dog in a Johnnypump (1982) and Banksy’s response, Banksquiat. Boy and Dog in Stop and Search (2018), reveal throughlines among street art, contemporary art, and the popular imagination.
Basquiat × Banksy marks the first time that artwork by either artist has been presented at the nation’s museum of modern and contemporary art. The exhibition also includes 20 small works on paper and wood from the collection of Larry Warsh that were made by Basquiat between 1979 and 1985 and demonstrate the artist’s deep familiarity with art history, his use of language, and his signature motifs, such as skulls and crowns. The film Downtown 81 (shot in 1980–1981 and released in 2000), a send-up of the denizens of Manhattan’s ’80s avant-garde that stars Basquiat as a struggling artist named “Jean,” is also on view.
Accompanying public programs include a free hourlong lecture by Richard J. Powell, John Spencer Bassett Professor of Art and Art History at Duke University and a distinguished scholar of African American art and art of the African diaspora, at 6:30 PM on Oct. 10 in the Hirshhorn’s Ring Auditorium.
https://hirshhorn.si.edu/exhibitions/basquiat-x-banksy/ 

Revolutions: Art from the Hirshhorn Collection, 1860-1960
MAR 22 2024 - NOV 1 2026 
Second Floor, Outer-Circle Galleries
In celebration of its 50th-anniversary season, the Smithsonian’s Hirshhorn Museum presents Revolutions: Art from the Hirshhorn Collection, 1860–1960, a major survey of artwork made during a transformative period characterized by new currents in science and philosophy and ever-increasing mechanization. Revolutions captures shifting cultural landscapes through the largely chronological presentation of 208 artworks made by 122 artists—including Francis Bacon, Jean Dubuffet, Lee Krasner, Wilfredo Lam, Georgia O’Keeffe, Pablo Picasso, and Jackson Pollock—during these turbulent and energetic years. Filling the Outer Ring galleries on the Museum’s second floor, the works are all part of the Hirshhorn’s permanent collection, and many were gifts to the nation from founding donor Joseph H. Hirshhorn.
The exhibition also includes contemporary work by 19 artists in the permanent collection, including Abraham Cruzvillegas, Torkwase Dyson, Annette Lemieux, Joel Sternfeld, Hiroshi Sugimoto, Genesis Tramaine, and Flora Yukhnovich, whose practices demonstrate that many of the revolutionary ideas and approaches arising during these 100 years remain critical today.
Revolutions spotlights the rush of art-historical movements and genres that characterized both the arc of Modernism and the ascendancy of abstraction, notably through the work of artists interested in engaging the mind, not just the eye. This breadth was evident in Joseph Hirshhorn’s founding gifts to the Museum. An industrialist, collector, and philanthropist, he donated nearly 6,000 works—including a significant number of sculptures—in anticipation of the Museum’s opening on October 4, 1974, and 6,400 more were gifted upon his death in 1981. Together these gifts constitute one of the most important collections of postwar American and European art in the world. Today the Hirshhorn collection comprises more than 13,130 artworks.
https://hirshhorn.si.edu/exhibitions/revolutions-art-from-the-hirshhorn-collection-1860-1960/ 

Adam Pendleton: Love, Queen 
APR 4 2025 - JAN 3 2027
Second Floor, Inner-Ring Galleries 
The Hirshhorn Museum presents Adam Pendleton: Love, Queen, a landmark exhibition of new and recent paintings, as well as a single-channel video work, in the Museum’s second-floor inner-ring galleries from April 4, 2025, to January 3, 2027. In his first solo exhibition in Washington, DC, Adam Pendleton highlights his unique contributions to contemporary American painting while making use of the architecture of the Museum and the history of the National Mall.
In its totality, Adam Pendleton: Love, Queen offers a powerful counterpoint to the Museum’s collection surveys that are concurrently presented in adjacent galleries.
https://hirshhorn.si.edu/exhibitions/adam-pendleton-love-queen/ 

Big Things for Big Rooms
DEC 20 2025 - JUL 4 2027
Second Floor galleries
Big Things for Big Rooms traces the development of immersive, large-scale artworks since the late 1960s. This presentation of 10 artworks—five on view for the first time at the Museum—is drawn largely from the Hirshhorn collection.  
Organized in two parts, the exhibition offers a multisensorial investigation of how artists create installation works that expand the boundaries of an artwork and the role of the visitor. The first part introduces the development of “Environments,” expansive installations by pioneering artists such as Dan Flavin, Sam Gilliam, Robert Irwin (whose work defined the Light and Space movement), Lygia Pape, and Land artist Richard Long. The second half demonstrates the ways that contemporary artists such as Paul Chan, Olafur Eliasson, Spencer Finch, Rashid Johnson, and Mika Rottenberg are expanding upon these foundational ideas in different ways, often using everyday materials. 
https://hirshhorn.si.edu/exhibitions/big-things-for-big-rooms/ 

Mark Bradford: Pickett’s Charge 
NOV 8 2017 - ONGOING
Third Floor
Internationally renowned artist Mark Bradford (b. 1961) has debuted one of his largest works to date with Pickett’s Charge, a monumental new commission that spans nearly 400 linear feet.
Pickett’s Charge builds upon the Hirshhorn’s continued commitment to showcasing the ways that artists respond to the unique political and cultural climate of their time. Through its free exhibitions and public programs, the Hirshhorn is dedicated to fostering conversation around the forces that shape creative expression in the twenty-first century.
https://hirshhorn.si.edu/exhibitions/mark-bradford-picketts-charge/ 

Barbara Kruger: Belief + Doubt 
AUG 20 2012 - ONGOING
Lower Level
Part of an initiative to bring art to new sites within and around the building, this installation by Barbara Kruger fills the Lower Level lobby and extends into the Museum bookstore. Famous for her incisive photomontages, Kruger has focused increasingly over the past two decades on creating environments that surround the viewer with language. The entire space—walls, floor, escalator sides—is wrapped in text-printed vinyl, immersing visitors in a spectacular hall of voices where words crafted by the artist or borrowed from the popular lexicon address conflicting perceptions of democracy, power, and belief.
At a moment when ideological certitude and purity seem especially valued, Kruger says she’s “interested in introducing doubt.” Large areas of the installation are devoted to open-ended questions (“WHO IS BEYOND THE LAW? WHO IS FREE TO CHOOSE? WHO SPEAKS? WHO IS SILENT?”), while the section occupying the bookstore explores themes of desire and consumption. At once addressing the individual, the museum, and, symbolically, the country, Kruger’s penetrating examination of the public sphere transforms one of the Hirshhorn’s key public spaces.
https://hirshhorn.si.edu/exhibitions/barbara-kruger-beliefdoubt/ 

Laurie Anderson: Four Talks
ONGOING
Second Floor, Outer-Ring
Laurie Anderson is one of the leading multimedia artists of our time, and her innovative work in performance, music, technology, and visual art has profoundly influenced popular culture for more than forty years. In 2021, as part of The Weather—her largest US exhibition to date—the Hirshhorn invited Anderson to create a new work on site. Anderson worked ten-hour days at the Museum for more than two weeks, painting directly on the walls and floors of this large gallery and covering nearly every inch with stories, song lyrics, jokes, and commentary on current events. Painting in a stream-of-consciousness manner without preparatory sketches, she created an enveloping and intensely personal installation that takes visitors on a journey through her mind. The installation’s title, Four Talks (2021), refers to the four sculptures—a raven, a parrot, a canoe, and a shelf—at its center, each accompanied by a pithy story or text passage. Monumentally scaled, conceptually rich, and visually captivating, Four Talks, currently on long-term view on the second-floor outer ring, represents a key achievement in Anderson’s career.
https://hirshhorn.si.edu/exhibitions/laurie-anderson-four-talks/ 

Sculpture Garden 
CLOSED FOR REVITALIZATION 
With more than thirty works of art displayed year-round, the Hirshhorn Museum’s Sculpture Garden and Plaza offer visitors a contemplative haven in the heart of our nation’s capital. Comprising nearly a fourth of Joseph Hirshhorn’s initial gift, sculptures were and remain a critical aspect of the Museum’s identity, and the Garden, which opened with the Museum in 1974, provides the perfect setting for a collection of modern sculpture that, at the time, was said to be “without parallel in the world.”
In addition to the outdoor galleries that make up the Sculpture Garden, the Plaza surrounding the Museum building affords ample space to exhibit more contemporary works.
Together, the two sites form a landscaped venue for some of the Museum’s most cherished works.
https://hirshhorn.si.edu/exhibitions/sculpture-garden-plaza/ 

                                                                                  
  - NYC: 
New Museum
General museum link: https://www.newmuseum.org/ 
Ticket link: https://tickets.newmuseum.org/orders/177/calendar?cart=true&eventId=5f342790963e28664ac9484c 
Admissions info: 
	Adults $25
Seniors (65+) $22
	Visitors with Disabilities (Care partners are complimentary) $22
	Students $19
	Youth (18 and Under) Free
	Community Partners and Affiliates Free
	Members (Members do not need to book tickets in advance) Free
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://www.newmuseum.org/exhibitions/ 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL
	
	New Humans: Memories of the Future
	MAR 21 2026 - ONGOING
	Second, Third, and Fourth Floor
New Humans explores how technological developments have inspired evolving definitions of the “human.” New Humans: Memories of the Future will inaugurate the New Museum’s expanded building with an exploration of artists’ enduring preoccupation with what it means to be human in the face of sweeping technological changes. New Humans will trace a diagonal history of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries through the work of more than 200 international artists, writers, scientists, architects, and filmmakers, highlighting key moments when dramatic technological and social changes spurred new conceptions of humanity and new visions for its possible futures.	https://www.newmuseum.org/exhibition/new-humans-memories-of-the-future/ 

	Plaza: Sarah Lucas -- VENUS VICTORIA
	MAY 12 2026 - ONGOING
	Plaza
A new sculpture commission by Sarah Lucas celebrates women claiming space in public life. VENUS VICTORIA by Sarah Lucas is the inaugural commission for the New Museum’s public plaza. Lucas was selected by an all-artist jury comprised of Teresita Fernández, Joan Jonas, Julie Mehretu, Cindy Sherman, and Kiki Smith, and is the first of five recipients over 10 years who will be selected by a rotating jury. VENUS VICTORIA will be on view for two years in a new outdoor plaza on Bowery at Prince Street created as part of the New Museum’s OMA-designed building expansion.
https://www.newmuseum.org/exhibition/plaza-sarah-lucas-venus-victoria/ 

	Facade: Tschabalala Self -- Art Lovers 
	MAR 21 2026 - ONGOING
	Exterior Third Floor Facade
	A new work for the New Museum’s facade by Tschabalala Self explores connection and romance through the lens of architecture and public space. As part of the New Museum’s ongoing Facade Sculpture Program, Tschabalala Self (b. 1990, Harlem, NY; lives and works in Hudson Valley, NY) will present a new site-specific work entitled Art Lovers. Self’s work depicts a romantic scene of a couple embracing, mirroring the architectural “kiss point” where the SANAA-designed building meets the OMA-designed expansion. Visible from Bowery and Prince Street, Art Lovers offers viewers a contemporary portrait of NYC life and the personal connections enabled by public spaces like museums.
https://www.newmuseum.org/exhibition/facade-tschabalala-self-art-lovers/ 

	Atrium Stair: Klára Hosnedlová -- Shelter
	MAR 21 2026 - ONGOING
	Atrium Stair 
	A site-specific sculpture by Klára Hosnedlová drawing on Eastern Bloc architecture and centuries-old craft traditions. The site-specific installation by Klára Hosnedlová (b. 1990, Uherské Hradiště, Czech Republic) commissioned for the Museum’s new Atrium Stair is the artist’s first museum project in the United States. Made possible by a continuing collaboration between the New Museum and Danish textile company Kvadrat to support ambitious new productions by emerging artists, Hosnedlová’s new work reflects her ongoing interest in intersecting questions around labor, gender, and historical memory. Her sandstone and glass sculpture will be surrounded by a pelt-like form created from a flax-based textile and will feature the artist’s signature intricate embroideries. The work will be viewable on the Atrium Stair and surrounding landings from the Museum’s Lobby up to the Fourth Floor.
	https://www.newmuseum.org/exhibition/atrium-stair-klara-hosnedlova/ 
		
Studio Museum in Harlem
General museum link: https://www.studiomuseum.org/?gad_source=1&gad_campaignid=23318115255&gbraid=0AAAAADpMt4usJI0yCKvH-oVPLLv_6TTZi&gclid=CjwKCAjwwJzPBhBREiwAJfHRnaLS5GGjHTsAO_Qj-NooCHcha3HgeCsy5wQIaSuZhqj-2SUfNzWklhoCLZUQAvD_BwE 
Ticket link: https://visit.studiomuseum.org/ 
Admissions info: 
	Adult $16
Senior (65+) $9
Student $9
Visitor with disability $9
Care partner for a visitor with disability Free
Child (16 and under) Free
Members Free
Active US Military and Veterans Free
EBT/SNAP Cardholders Up to four complimentary tickets
AAM, ICOM, and Bizot Group Members Up to two complimentary tickets
Museum Council of NYC and NARM Members Up to two complimentary tickets
Other Museum Staff Up to two complimentary tickets
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://www.studiomuseum.org/exhibitions-and-events 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL    
PAST
Something in the Water: Expanding the Walls 2024
JUL 31 2024 - JUL 30 2025
Online exhibit: https://expandingthewalls.studiomuseum.org/ 
https://www.studiomuseum.org/exhibitions/something-in-the-water-expanding-the-walls-2024 

From the Studio: Fifty-Eight Years of Artists in Residence 
NOV 15 2025 - FEB 15 2026 
Fourth Floor 
https://www.studiomuseum.org/exhibitions/artist-in-residence-alumni-installation 
		
	Tom Lloyd
	NOV 15 2025 - MAR 22 2026
	Third Floor 
	https://www.studiomuseum.org/exhibitions/tom-lloyd 

CURRENT
	Expanding the Walls: Making Connections Between Photography, History, and Community
	THROUGH JUN 8 2026 	
For a quarter of a century, Expanding the Walls: Making Connections Between Photography, History, and Community, envisioned by Sandra Jackson-Dumont, has fostered critical thinking, artistic expression, and community engagement among its teen participants. This exhibition, which marks the twenty-fifth anniversary of Expanding the Walls, features photographs across the program’s years, offering a glimpse into the people, places, and moments that define a teenager’s world. As their camera may have evolved—first from Polaroid, then to film, and now to digital—each photographer presents a distinct visual language shaped by the techniques and technologies of their time. Whether navigating self, family, or community, these young artists use their camera to capture adolescence in all its complexity and clarity. One of the program’s signature elements is its focus on the archive of renowned Harlem photographer James Van Der Zee (1886–1983). By studying Van Der Zee’s portraits of Harlem’s Black community in the early twentieth century, teens gain a deeper understanding of the historical context that shaped their community and how photography can be a powerful tool for documenting cultural identity. 	
https://www.studiomuseum.org/exhibitions/expanding-the-walls-making-connections-between-photography-history-and-community 

	At an Arm’s Length: Expanding the Walls 2025 
	JUL 29 2025 - JUL 30 2026	
	at an arm’s length: Expanding the Walls 2025 is an online exhibition that features photography by the fifteen artists in the 2025 cohort of the Studio Museum in Harlem’s signature teen program, Expanding the Walls: Making Connections between Photography, History, and Community. This year marks the program’s twenty-fifth anniversary.The phrase “at an arm’s length” suggests both physical proximity and emotional reserve, a desire to be close, yet the need to distance oneself. The artists in this exhibition capture a cautious intimacy shaped by the bittersweet edges of adolescence, exploring what it means to be in community while choosing what to share and what to hold close.
https://www.studiomuseum.org/exhibitions/at-an-arms-length-expanding-the-walls-2025 

	From Now: A Collection in Context
	NOV 15 2025 - AUG 16 2026
	From Now: A Collection in Context is a dynamic, shifting installation of thematic exchanges drawn entirely from the Studio Museum in Harlem’s collection and installed throughout the building. Featuring a call-and-response of regular rotations of works, the exhibition is organized in sections that will unfold and evolve over the course of the year. Altogether, the installation presents a plurality of voices and explores motifs that have preoccupied artists of African descent across generations.

With works from the nineteenth century appearing alongside those of the present, From Now demonstrates the myriad ways artworks from disparate times, locations, and genres—and the artists who make them—can be in dialogue. Works that have rarely, if ever, been on view are displayed with those both newly acquired and long synonymous with the institution. The exhibition thus follows in the lineage of past collection shows committed to revealing the many perspectives, identities, and forms of art making by Black artists. 
	https://www.studiomuseum.org/exhibitions/permanent-collection 

	To Be a Place
	NOV 15 2025 - AUG 30 2026 
To celebrate the Studio Museum in Harlem’s nearly sixty-year history, a visual timeline of historical documents, media, and programming ephemera will lay out a concise and detailed narrative of the Museum, from its former building on Fifth Avenue to its current spot on 125th Street. This installation will offer visitors an opportunity to discover the host of exhibitions, events, and programs that have defined the institution, and the communities with which it has engaged, throughout six decades of cultural, political, and societal change. 
	https://www.studiomuseum.org/exhibitions/studio-museum-archives 

	Christopher Myers: Harlem is a Myth
	ONGOING
	The Education Workshop are the first spaces dedicated to the Studio Museum in Harlem’s education programs, where audiences of all ages engage with art in creative, collaborative, and dynamic ways. In honor of the Museum's commitment to such purpose-driven art education, artist Christopher Myers presents the site-specific installation, Harlem Is a Myth. Harlem Is a Myth depicts an intergenerational community of mythic beings, including figures from iconic moments in Harlem. Myers transforms a young Kareem Abdul-Jabbar into a basketball-carrying centaur, jazz legends Thelonious Monk and Count Basie sprout butterfly and angel wings, and two girls strike poses with antlers and a tail.

Harlem Is a Myth was also inspired by an encounter Myers experienced in Harlem nearly fifteen years ago while walking along 125th Street. A woman, unknown to the artist, approached him to say, “I can tell you are an angel even though you don’t know you have wings.” She described her ability to see what others cannot, and she insisted that people need to be loved despite “the little bit of monster on the inside.” Reflecting on this exchange, Myers says, “All of us have deep, inner stories to tell, and I was inspired to see what she saw, the whimsy and magic in all of us.”

Harlem Is a Myth invites all who enter the Education Workshop to consider what inner stories can be shared through art. How might these stories come to life when making art in community within the Museum and beyond? How can we use materials to explore and imagine worlds beyond our own?
https://www.studiomuseum.org/exhibitions/christopher-myers-harlem-is-a-myth 

	Camille Norment: Untitled (Heliotrope)
	ONGOING
	Commissioned by the Studio Museum in Harlem to create a site-informed work for its terrace staircase, Camille Norment presents Untitled (heliotrope), a sculptural and sound installation inspired by contemporary and historical migration. Handwoven by the artist herself, brass wires frame brass tubes of varying lengths and diameters; the resulting shape recalls both a pipe organ and a raft.  

The placement of Norment’s work in the Studio Museum—along the wall of a passageway with a view toward the South—engages with diasporic migratory patterns from North to South and South to North caused by numerous sociopolitical, environmental, and cultural concerns. Untitled (heliotrope) positions “social heliotropism”—the orientation toward perceived sources of growth and care during difficult circumstances, like sunflowers turning to the sun—as a framework to consider migration. As the installation suggests, the search for harmony amid dissonance is integral to the diasporic experience.
	https://www.studiomuseum.org/exhibitions/camille-norment-untitled-heliotrope 

	Kapwani Kiwanga: Bleed
	MAR 11 2026 - APR 1 2027
	BLEED is a new site-specific commission by French and Canadian artist Kapwani Kiwanga. Installed in the Museum’s second-floor project gallery and on view from March 11, 2026, until April 1, 2027, BLEED draws inspiration from quilting traditions and the symbolism embedded in their intricate designs.

Along the Underground Railroad, quilts hanging on clotheslines were believed to be stitched with codes that communicated critical information. BLEED features one of these motifs—a pattern of triangles called the “flying geese” that was purported to guide people north. Expanding on this encrypted language and Black traditions of knowledge sharing, Kiwanga transposes the pattern into black, blue, and crimson undulations. To achieve these colors, Kiwanga employed three distinct natural dye processes. Oxidizing pigment with salt water collected from the Atlantic Ocean produced the dappled black fabric. Through this blend of materials, Kiwanga references the transatlantic trade and engages the sea as a witness to and keeper of memories. The deep red circular shape comes from pokeberries, which are native to North America. Although they are known for their toxicity, pokeberries are often used as a dye for clothing and, when prepared correctly, for their medicinal properties. In 1816 a Black woman named Delphy was accused of poisoning her enslaver by feeding her pokeberries, an act of self-determination that inspired Kiwanga’s use of the fruit. Indigo dye provides the careening blue swells in the work. Cultivated using the forced labor of people under the condition of slavery who brought knowledge of the plant from West Africa, indigo fueled plantation economies in the South. In BLEED, indigo illuminates Black ancestral bonds and an inherited relationship to the land. Featuring fugitive dyes, which are colors that can shift over time, BLEED is imbued with an impermanence that allows the work to become a register of the passage of time.
	https://www.studiomuseum.org/exhibitions/kapwani-kiwanga-bleed 

	Artist Installations 
	On Long-term View
	Artists: Houston E. Conwill, David Hammons, Glenn Ligon
	https://www.studiomuseum.org/exhibitions/artist-installations 


UPCOMING
	Fade
	May 1 2026 - SEP 6 2026 
	https://www.studiomuseum.org/exhibitions/fade 

	Lil’ Studio at Harlem Library 
	May 2 2026 11AM - 12PM
	https://www.studiomuseum.org/events/lil-studio-harlem-library-6 
		
	Studio Sunday 
	May 3 2026 11AM - 6PM
	https://www.studiomuseum.org/events/studio-sunday-11-12-4 
                                                                  
  - NY State: 
Dia Beacon       
General museum link: https://www.diaart.org/visit/visit-our-locations-sites/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 
Ticket link: https://diaart.org/visit/tickets 
Admissions info: 
$25 Adults
$18 Seniors 65+
$12 Students
$12 Visitors with disabilities
$5 Children 5–11

Free for Dia members, children under 5, care partners of visitors with disabilities, and Beacon and Newburgh residents.


Advance reservations are suggested, but not required.
For groups of 10 or more, schedule a visit here.
Become a member today to receive free admission to Dia Beacon, discounts at our bookshops, access to special events, and more. 
Dia accepts credit and debit cards, mobile payments and cash.  
Dia Art Foundation is committed to welcoming all visitors to Dia Beacon. We honor reciprocal memberships and offer free admission for military families and veterans (plus one), SNAP participants, and EBT cardholders.
Beacon and Newburgh residents receive free admission.
Hudson Valley residents receive free admission on the last Sunday of each month.
To reserve free or discounted tickets, please fill out our free admission request.
To request special accommodation or to ask questions about your visit, please contact 845 231 0811 or tickets@diaart.org. 
If you are a member of the press, please contact press@diaart.org for more information about visiting. 
Dia is not able to refund or exchange admission tickets with less than a 24-hour notice.
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL   
PAST
Meg Webster
FEB 16 2024 - APR 13 2026
https://www.diaart.org/program/past-programs/meg-webster-exhibition/type/exhibitions-projects/year/all 

Senga Nengudi 
FEB 17 2023 - MAR 23 2026
https://www.diaart.org/program/past-programs/senga-nengudi-exhibition-296/type/exhibitions-projects/year/all 

Melvin Edwards
MAY 6 2022 - FEB 22 2026 
https://www.diaart.org/program/past-programs/melvin-edwards-exhibition/type/exhibitions-projects/year/all 

CURRENT
Agnes Martin: Painting is not making paintings 
APR 4 2026 - ONGOING 	
Agnes Martin: Painting is not making paintings draws primarily from Dia’s extensive collection of Martin’s canvases to focus on the breadth of the artist’s output during the 1950s and ’60s, complemented by important works from the latter decades of her practice, as well as significant loans. Charting Martin’s transition from quasi-organic abstraction to the graphite grid, this selection illuminates how she developed her approach to creating highly considered, delicately balanced compositions, which progressed slowly and iteratively over time. Key examples of her use of the grid—a distinctly reduced compositional device, rigorously yet meditatively articulated with hand-drawn lines—demonstrate how Martin expanded and refined her Minimal vocabulary over the course of the 1960s. A series of works created post-1974, following a painting hiatus of several years, encompass the range of compositions and palettes she adopted in that period, from horizontal bands and luminous acrylic washes to the return of geometric forms and her final “black” canvases. Martin’s evolution over the course of five decades articulates her refusal of painting as a product-driven practice but as a way of existing in the world. Returning her work to Dia Beacon’s galleries for the first time in nearly a decade, this exhibition offers a renewed opportunity to view Martin’s singular contributions to Minimalism in the context of her conceptually like-minded peers.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/agnes-martin-painting-is-not-making-paintings-exhibition/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states

Stanley Brouwn 
APR 15 2023 - MAY 18 2026	
this presentation coincides with stanley brouwn, the artist’s first comprehensive solo exhibition in the united states, on view at the art institute of chicago april 8–july 31, 2023, and is co-curated by jordan carter and ann goldstein, the art institute's deputy director and chair and dittmer curator of modern and contemporary art.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/stanley-brouwn-exhibition/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Jack Whitten: Prime Mover
OCT 24 2025 - JUN 22 2026
Jack Whitten: Prime Mover brings together a group of recently acquired works on paper that Jack Whitten realized during the 1970s using a range of dry and wet black pigments. The year 1970 saw a shift in the artist’s studio methods, with systematic process replacing the gestural abstraction of the previous decade. Moving away from the easel, he started to work horizontally on flat surfaces and employ new tools, materials, and methods of his own design to generate images that dispense with the artist’s hand. In keeping with the language of contemporary technologies, Whitten began using the term “developed,” as opposed to “designed,” to describe his changed approach to image making. Throughout the decade, as this presentation attests, the pulse of experimentation in Whitten’s oeuvre was first felt on paper.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/jack-whitten-prime-mover-exhibition/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Larry Bell
Long-term view 
A leading figure of Southern California’s Light and Space movement, Larry Bell explores the intersections of light, color, and volume through glass. Since the early 1960s his experimentations with how visitors encounter his sculptures within an environment have included vacuum-coating his glass panels with metallic particles to create reflective and translucent surfaces and forms. This exhibition at Dia Beacon brings together a focused selection of Bell’s early sculptures from key small cubes to one of his first free-standing sculptures, Standing Walls (1968), now in Dia’s collection. These will be presented alongside Duo Nesting Boxes (2021), a new diptych conceived for Dia that references both the open-form autonomy of Bell’s standing walls and the geometry of his signature cubes. In keeping with Bell’s most recent interests in the apparent saturation and density of color, Duo Nesting Boxes consists of layered panels of green and blue glass.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/larry-bell-exhibition/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Louise Bourgeois
Long-term view
“Every day,” Louise Bourgeois said, “you have to abandon your past or accept it, and then, if you cannot accept it, you become a sculptor.” For her, making art entails trying to translate experience into form—an operation that she compares with exorcism. In Bourgeois’s works on view in these galleries, organic formations fuse with the inorganic materiality of the media in which they are rendered, be it marble, wood, or bronze. The artist’s repertoire of materials spans traditional media and new textures, such as latex and synthetic resin. In her work, representation often entails the creation of a surrogate for the body and its suffering organs.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/louise-bourgeois-exhibition/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Renée Green: The Equator Has Moved	
MAR 7 2025 - OCT 12 2026
Renée Green: The Equator Has Moved marks the multidisciplinary artist’s first major solo museum presentation in New York. Since the late 1980s, Green has produced densely layered, knowledge-based work that adapts strategies of Minimal and Conceptual art from the 1960s and ’70s. In her uniquely recursive process, Green juxtaposes a range of materials—archival, documentary, and literary fragments; personal and found ephemera; speculative narratives; and her own extant work—to probe the unstable boundaries between fact and fiction, public recollection and personal memory.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/renee-green-the-equator-has-moved-exhibition/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Michael Heizer
Long-term view
Though Michael Heizer began his career as a painter, he is best known for the monumental sculptural works he began making in the 1960s. Deeply concerned with archaeology, ecology, and the natural landscape, he uses stone and steel as his primary materials. Often cutting into and expunging parts of the landscape, Heizer developed the concept of a “negative sculpture,” where the presence of the work of art is made palpable precisely through its material absence. 
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/michael-heizer-exhibition/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Roni Horn 
Long-term view
Since the late 1970s, Roni Horn has developed an expansive practice encompassing drawing, photography, sculpture, installation, and text. Her works are discrete and multifaceted, yet they are unified by an abiding conceptual focus on questions of perception and the fluidity of identity—of the object and of oneself—as conditioned by varying circumstances. While the examination of materials’ properties is a significant aspect of Minimalism, Horn’s work critiques the movement’s notion of the autonomous art object, allowing human subjectivity to shape it. The work is the process of becoming; it happens in the encounter with the viewer, repeatedly. The selection on view exemplifies the artist’s early exploration of how we experience of the physical reality of chosen media—forms, materiality, presence—through nuanced spatial compositions. Key to the contingent nature of her work is the investigation of how a material’s presence is heightened and doubling as both a visual and conceptual approach. Elements in Horn’s work are reiterated, defining themselves through differences as well as varying distances from one another.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/roni-horn-exhibition-362/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Tehching Hsieh: Lifeworks 1978-1999
Long-term view
Following Tehching Hsieh’s gift of 11 career-defining works to Dia in 2024, Tehching Hsieh: Lifeworks 1978–1999 is the first retrospective of the Taiwanese American artist’s radical performances. The exhibition covers 1978 through 1999, a period in which Hsieh enacted his five iconic One Year Performances followed by Tehching Hsieh 1986–1999 (Thirteen Year Plan). For each of the yearlong works, Hsieh lived locked in a wooden cage; punched a time clock in his studio every hour, on the hour; lived outside, navigating New York’s streets without shelter; was tied to another artist, Linda Montano, by an eight-foot rope; and refrained entirely from making, viewing, reading about, or speaking of art, respectively. During Hsieh’s final and longest performance, the artist made art but withheld it from the public for 13 years. The exhibition is organized according to an architectural model, conceptualized by the artist over the course of a decade and adapted for Dia Beacon, that spatially conveys the time endured for each performance as well as in between them.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/tehching-hsieh-lifeworks-19781999-exhibition/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Robert Irwin, Beacon Project
Long-term view
Robert Irwin’s design for Dia Beacon, Beacon Project (1999–2003), is the artist’s second collaboration with Dia Art Foundation, following Prologue: x183 (1998) and Excursus: Homage to the Square3 (1998/2015). Conceiving of Dia Beacon as a work of art in and of itself, Irwin made subtle interventions into the building’s lighting and developed a symmetrical floorplan to ensure that the galleries are presented nonhierarchically and without a single overarching historical or chronological narrative. Specifically envisioned for the display of the works in Dia’s collection, Irwin’s design maintains the character of the original structure—with the sole addition of an entry vestibule—and ensures that Dia Beacon’s expansive galleries are entirely lit by natural light.    
The artist envisioned the museum as a “sequence of experiences” including riding the linear corridor of the Metro North railway up the Hudson River from Grand Central Station in New York City and descending into Dia Beacon’s parking lot. Taking Beacon’s local horticulture and seasonal light conditions—as well as the former Nabisco factory’s architecture—into consideration, Irwin’s design for the landscape surrounding Dia Beacon incorporates indigenous plants that bloom throughout the year. Considering the possible ambulatory paths one could take through the grounds, Irwin designed a garden on the museum’s west side to serve as a bridge between otherwise unconnected parts of the building.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/robert-irwin-beacon-project-exhibition/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Donald Judd
Long-term view
On view in these galleries is a focused presentation of Donald Judd’s iconic plywood works from the 1970s, which exemplify the artist’s ability to produce exquisitely complex works by combining essential geometry and common industrial materials. Starting in the 1960s Judd determined a basic vocabulary of materials and forms that he would use throughout his practice, placing simple geometric boxes directly on the floor or spaced evenly along the wall. In forgoing the pedestal, he engages viewers in a bodily experience that happens in real time and space. Judd rejected traditional notions of craftsmanship in favor of an industrial production more true to the nature of his materials, delegating the fabrication of his objects to specialized technicians who followed instructions and sketches provided by the artist.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/donald-judd-exhibition-85/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

On Kawara 
Long-term view
On Kawara was deeply concerned with the ways humans experience and record time. Kawara began his Today Series of paintings on January 4, 1966, and continued to work on them until his death in mid-2014. Adhering to a rigorous set of rules that he established, Kawara required that each painting be completed on the date depicted on its surface and in the language and grammar of the country in which it was completed. In addition to these formal conventions, the Today Series paintings are stored in handmade cardboard boxes along with a clipping from the local newspaper. Occasionally these boxes are exhibited, and particularly in earlier works, phrases or text from the clippings would form part of the title as well. Combining the individual with the universal, the Today Series is both a deeply personal journey (asserting that I was here on this day), but also the story of humanity and struggles experienced on a much larger scale—as captured through the lens of daily newspaper reportage.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/on-kawara-exhibition/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Imi Knoebel 
Long-term view
Imi Knoebel’s practice often centers on spatial relations in addition to the fundamentals of painting and sculpture, preoccupations he developed during his education at the Kunstakademie Düsseldorf studying under Joseph Beuys. In Raum 19 (Room 19, 1968), Knoebel reduces the core elements of a traditional artistic practice—stretchers, picture frames, and various planar surfaces—to distill the essence of form, material, surface, space, and support. Room 19 can be variously arranged, depending on the context; since no fixed set of relationships binds the components, the work can expand to an environmental scale. Alternatively, it may be densely compacted as it would be in storage. As such, the form of the work becomes an event, contingent upon presentation and staging.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/imi-knoebel-exhibition/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Louise Lawler
Long-term view
Since the early 1970s, Louise Lawler has created works that expose the economic and social conditions that affect the reception of art. Lawler’s work directs attention to positions of artistic authority and upends the presentation strategies that shape an encounter with an artwork.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/louise-lawler-exhibition/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Sol LeWitt 
Long-term view 
In the late 1960s, Sol LeWitt established a set of aesthetic principles through two key texts that would form the basis of his practice: “Paragraphs on Conceptual Art” (1967) and “Sentences on Conceptual Art” (1969). For LeWitt, “the idea or concept is the most important aspect of the work.” He began to use these ideas as guidelines for two-dimensional works drawn directly on the wall. LeWitt’s outlook and practice inaugurated a new genre that he would explore for the remainder of his career.
The wall drawings are the result of a set of instructions that are normally brief and relatively direct; consequently, their results vary in complexity and scale.  “Paragraphs on Conceptual Art” emphasized this level of preparedness. LeWitt asserted that “all of the planning and decisions are made beforehand and the execution is a perfunctory affair.” Although the earliest of these works were drawn by LeWitt, the series quickly grew into a form of visual score that could be better interpreted by a qualified assistant or group of assistants in a specific location.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/sol-lewitt-exhibition/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Max Neuhaus 
Long-term view
A pioneer in the field of contemporary art and music, Max Neuhaus is credited with being the first artist to use sound as a medium for site-specific installations. His sound installations allow listeners to approach sound as art, in their own time. Testing the idea that our perception of a place depends also on what we hear, Neuhaus extended sound into social spaces to create sites altered by the synthetic, anonymous sounds concealed within them. Commissioned by Dia in 2005, Time Piece Beacon is based on the principle of a “sound signal in reverse,” a subtle sound that is noticed when it disappears rather than when it begins. As each hour approaches, a low tone gradually emerges along the perimeters of the galleries at Dia Beacon, and the hour is signaled when the sound abruptly ends.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/max-neuhaus-exhibition/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Hélio Oiticica 
Long-term view
Hélio Oiticica was a groundbreaking visual artist and theorist whose diverse practice spanned sculpture, drawing, painting, installation, and performance. His expansive body of work laid the foundations for participatory art, offering radical insights into abstraction through the lens of social, political, and economic conditions in Latin America and beyond. As a central figure in Brazil’s Neoconcrete movement and a co-founder of the Tropicália movement, Oiticica’s innovative approach emphasized the importance of spatial awareness and embodied interaction. At Dia Beacon, rare works on canvas from the artist’s Metaesquemas (Meta-Schemes, 1958–59) and Relevos Espaciais (Spatial Reliefs, 1959) series are on display alongside the large-scale Grande Núcleo (Grand Nucleus) (1960–66), which stands out as one of Oiticica’s most engaging environments. Breaking with the two-dimensional boundaries of his earlier works, Grande Núcleo was created as a complex structure of hanging rectangular panels, painted in a vibrant spectrum from bright yellow to deep orange, and arranged in a dynamic grid of varying angles and heights. Across the exhibition, the viewer’s corporeal presence, movement, and perception of time and space are activated, underscoring Oiticica’s evolving exploration of structure, color, and spatial engagement.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/helio-oiticica-exhibition/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Gerhard Richter
Long-term view
Gerhard Richter realized Six Gray Mirrors as a site-specific work for Dia Beacon in 2003. Six gray-enameled glass panels hang from the walls on supports that allow them to be tilted at various angles. Their neutral depths not only reflect visitors but also respond to the light from the high windows, combining architecture, sculpture, and painting into a synthetic whole. The somber appearance of the work simultaneously negates and combines Richter’s passion for glass, mirror, and monochrome—three tenets in the tradition of painting that the artist engaged throughout his career.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/gerhard-richter-exhibition/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Robert Ryman 
Long-term view
In the late 1960s, Robert Ryman observed that “there is never a question of what to paint, but only how to paint.” On long-term view since Dia Beacon opened in 2003, these galleries uniquely represent the range of techniques that Ryman pursued throughout his career. His paintings vary broadly, from gestural to self-effacing, pristine to vigorously layered, loosely brushed to delicately applied. His repertoire of materials is just as assorted, including various types of industrial paints and rare pigments, supports, adhesives, and fixtures such as fiberglass, steel, aluminum, and wood.
Originally trained as a jazz saxophonist, Ryman turned to painting after he began working as a guard at the Museum of Modern Art in 1953. He received little in the way of formal artistic training but devoted himself to studying painting through hands-on experimentation. Ryman’s earliest works from the late 1950s and early 1960s demonstrate an intense interest in the quality of paint and in the surfaces he built up through varied facture. Belying his reputation as a painter solely interested in white, Ryman explored the relationship between chromatic and achromatic tones. Many of his paintings from the 1980s expand into the viewer’s space, either through unconventional support structures or materials, and challenge the standard interaction between viewer and artwork.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/robert-ryman-exhibition-94/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Lucas Samaras
Long-term view
For over 60 years, Lucas Samaras worked fluidly between mediums in a manner that eluded categorization. The artist’s eccentric and uncanny objects often combine formal strategies of Minimalism with the haptic materiality of everyday objects. Such is the case with Cubes and Trapezoids (1994–95), which joined the collection in 2003 and will be presented at Dia Beacon for the first time since its 1994 debut at Pace Gallery in New York, together with a significant loan of one of the artist’s immersive mirrored rooms, Doorway (1966/2007).
The cubes consist of 24 totemic wooden volumes, covered in pale gray Nevamar laminate with cutouts of various geometrical shapes, that are arranged in an expansive grid. A material index of Samaras’s move to a new high-rise apartment building featuring the same gray surface treatment, the sculptures merge the vocabulary of the Minimal cube with elements drawn from the artist’s domestic architecture and autobiography. The related wall-works, the trapezoids, are made up of eight irregular quadrilateral forms nestled within uniform rectangles. The non-reflective surfaces of the laminated and latex-painted trapezoids, which nonetheless respond to light, complement the mirrored panels of Doorway. Together these psychologically charged objects literally and materially evoke the body, perverting the analytical geometries of Minimalism with the messy realities of identity and interiority.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/lucas-samaras-exhibition/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Richard Serra
Long-term view
Richard Serra has consistently and rigorously probed issues fundamental to sculpture over a career now spanning nearly six decades. In the late 1960s he introduced “process” into his sculptural practice by making explicit the means of his production. Between 1967 and 1968 Serra penned a list of transitive verbs, which he applied to new and innovative materials to make sculptures. Serra’s Scatter Piece (1968) is an example of this, consisting of rubber strips randomly distributed throughout the gallery. Serra’s work is on long-term view across five galleries at Dia Beacon.
Throughout his career, Serra’s work engaged with “ways of relating movement to material and space.” These concerns remained central to the steel sculptures he made in the 1990s and early 2000s. Ranging from Elevation Wedge (2001), a ramp that subtly inclines the floor of the gallery, to his monumental Torqued Ellipses series, these large installations of contorted steel plates elaborate concerns with orientation and movement, destabilizing our experience of space as we attempt to comprehend each sculptural volume. They are part of Serra’s investigation into the embodied experience of perception.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/richard-serra-exhibition/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Robert Smithson 
Long-term view
On view in these galleries are five of Robert Smithson’s indoor earthworks from the late 1960s, made with materials such as sand, gravel, mirrors, and glass. Deeply informed by science in its popularized forms—such as science fiction literature and cinema, encyclopedic collections, and natural history museums—his practice addresses processes of accumulation, displacement, and entropy in order to reveal the contradictions in our visible world.
Smithson focused his short but influential career on a reconsideration of sculpture in relation to nature. He began his career as a painter but in the mid-1960s started experimenting with different media including sculpture, writing, drawing, film, and eventually, earthworks. Sometimes the results were fleeting documentations, other times permanent, large-scale sculptural interventions—as in the case of Spiral Jetty (1970), the iconic earthwork maintained by Dia on the northeastern shore of Great Salt Lake, Utah.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/robert-smithson-exhibition/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Keith Sonnier 
Long-term view
Since the mid-1960s, Keith Sonnier seamlessly integrated an array of media into his practice while prioritizing concept, process, and duration. This presentation marks the artist’s first posthumous institutional exhibition in the United States, featuring a group of works realized between 1968 and 1970. During this formative period the artist radically reconsidered the haptic, spatial, and temporal dynamics of sculpture: from what he referred to as his “floor-to-wall” sculptures to installations that envelop their architectural surroundings with light and color. In these works, Sonnier pursued what he termed “psychologically loaded” industrial materials—including cloth and satin in addition to neon, latex, and flocking—with strong associative qualities. Many realized in situ, the sculptures and installations on view reconstitute the pivotal, early years of Sonnier’s practice, encapsulating foundational concerns and innovative strategies that defined his artistic vocabulary, including the entanglement of material, light, time, and space, as well as the cultivation of psychological and sensual evocations through process and form. 
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/keith-sonnier-exhibition/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Kishio Suga
Long-term view 
Kishio Suga brings together a representative group of the artist’s sculptures, dating from the 1960s to the ’90s, that probe the slippages between seeing and knowing. Works culled from Dia’s holdings are complemented by key loans, together unsettling habitual expectations of materials’ behaviors, including concrete, machine oil, paraffin wax, metal, and stone that are set in serial, mutually upholding, and at times precarious arrangements. Inflected anew by the conditions of the site in which they are displayed, each of Suga’s sculptures stages a carefully framed incoherence.
In conjunction with the exhibition’s opening, Suga’s murder-mystery film, Being and Murder (1999), and video documentation of his performative “activations” will screen for the first time outside of Japan at Dia Chelsea, from July 9 to August 9.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/kishio-suga-exhibition-354/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Andy Warhol: Shadows 
CLOSING JUL 6 2026 
Andy Warhol’s Shadows (1978–79) returns to Dia Beacon for long-term view in December 2023. A single painting in multiple parts, Shadows is one of Warhol’s most abstract works, yet one that cohesively synthesizes key elements of his practice, including film, painting, photography, and screenprinting. Originally commissioned by Dia and acquired in 1979 for a solo exhibition at 393 West Broadway in New York, Shadows includes a total of 102 canvases; the final number of canvases on view in each installation is determined by the dimensions of an existing exhibition space. 
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/andy-warhol-shadows-exhibition-303/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

Lawrence Weiner
Long-term view
Language is a dominant aspect of Lawrence Weiner’s practice. Conceived as objective representations of states or processes rather than material realities, Weiner’s works are capable of countless manifestations. Although their content is general and abstract, they remain inseparable from their presentation and context. These works could be defined as site-related; they are conceived in relation to the venue and circumstance. Whether the letters are stenciled, painted, or mounted in relief, the choice of typeface, size, placement, and color, varies with the site. The context serves as a vital factor for Weiner’s works. A poster, artist’s book, gallery, or public arena molds the work’s meaning.
Various and versatile, Weiner’s works at Dia Beacon remain dispersive. Visitors interact with them among the sculpture galleries, in a stairwell, and in the café/bookshop. Suspended high over the admissions desk, the artist’s Statement of Intent (1969) attests to his belief that “art always institutionalizes itself,” regardless of placement. Such an active arrangement emphasizes the work of art is completed only through a viewer’s potential reception and adoption.
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/lawrence-weiner-exhibition/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 


UPCOMING
	Lee Ufan 
	OPENING MAY 8 2026
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/lee-ufan-exhibition-363/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

John Chamberlain 
OPENING JUN 13 2026	https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/john-chamberlain-exhibition-365/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states 

	Alighiero Boetti
	OPENING JUN 26 2026
https://www.diaart.org/exhibition/exhibitions-projects/alighiero-boetti-exhibition/location/dia-beacon-beacon-united-states	


                                                                               
  - Philadelphia: 
Philadelphia Museum of Art 
General museum link: https://www.philamuseum.org/?utm_source=google&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=Brand_GrantsAccount&utm_content=rsa&utm_term=brandedterms&gad_source=1&gad_campaignid=943994635&gbraid=0AAAAADr1PsBurPgkQSWxK4CcUGDt4jO15&gclid=CjwKCAjwwJzPBhBREiwAJfHRnZjlkHO3iK6anTlYSopD_qB1SR1kKtH9LEwc6VFXKo4bYlEXipdBwBoCZN4QAvD_BwE 
Ticket link: https://www.philamuseum.org/tickets?keyword=Admission 
Admissions info:
Adults $30
Seniors (65+) $28
Students (with Valid ID) $14
Youth (12 & under) Free
Members Free
Special Admission Offers
Pay What You Wish: First Sunday of the month (10 a.m.–5 p.m.) and Friday nights.
ACCESS/EBT Cardholders: Free admission for up to 4 people.
Two-Day Ticket: Tickets include entry to the main building and the Rodin Museum for two consecutive days.
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL    
PAST
Dreamworld: Surrealism at 100
NOV 8 2025 - FEB 16 2026
Main Building, Dorrance Galleries
https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/dreamworld-surrealism 

Boom: Art and Design in the 1940s
APR 12 2025 - SEP 1 2025
Dorrance Galleries
https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/boom-art-design-1940s 

Mythical Creatures: China and the World
DEC 21 2023 - JUL 28 2025 
Galleries 321, 326 & 339
https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/mythical-creatures-china-and-the-world 

CURRENT
	A Nation of Artists 
	Through JUL 5 2027
	Main Building, American Art Galleries 
	Highlighting the richness and diversity of American art, "A Nation of Artists" will trace the evolving story of American creativity across three centuries, featuring works of art from the Philadelphia Museum of Art collected over the past 150 years and the Middleton Family Collection, one of the country’s most significant private holdings of American art. Presented chronologically around distinctive themes, the exhibition explores art making of all types, from ceramics to wood carving and painting to fashion, and includes works by Indigenous, African American, and historically underrepresented artists who have shaped the nation’s visual culture. Through acclaimed masterworks and surprising discoveries, visitors will trace the evolution of American identity and visual culture.
	https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/nation-artists 

	Out of the Shadows: Charcoal Drawings, 1850-1910 
	ONGOING
Main Building, Keyes Family Gallery 256
"‌Out of the Shadows: Charcoal Drawings, 1850–1910" considers the inspiration artists drew from their dark materials and follows their exploration of blackness in all its imaginative and narrative dimensions.‌‌‍‌‍‌ The works on view show charcoal, chalk, and crayon at their fullest potential, giving artists a means for setting to paper the shadowy world of their perception.	
https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/out-of-shadows-charcoal-drawings 
	
	Marcel Duchamp, Curator
	ONGOING
	Main Building, Gallery 282
	"Marcel Duchamp, Curator" illuminates the artist’s role in helping to bring the Arensberg collection to our museum, The installation evokes the original presentation of this gallery in 1954 by reuniting Duchamp’s monumental painting on glass with a selection of works from the Arensberg collection by such figures as Georges Braque, Robert Delaunay, Juan Gris, Piet Mondrian, Francis Picabia, and Pablo Picasso.
"Marcel Duchamp, Curator" coincides with a major retrospective of the work of Marcel Duchamp, co-organized by the Museum of Modern Art in New York and the Philadelphia Museum of Art, during the exhibition’s initial stop at the former institution before it comes to ours in the autumn of 2026.
	https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/marcel-duchamp-curator 
	
	Duchamp Brothers & Sister
	ONGOING
	Main Building, Gallery 281
	The installation "Duchamp Brothers & Sister" presents works by all four Duchamp siblings, offering visitors a chance to explore these artists’ interconnected lives and works.
"Duchamp Brothers & Sister" coincides with a major retrospective of Marcel Duchamp, co-organized by the Museum of Modern Art in New York and the Philadelphia Museum of Art, during that exhibition’s initial stop at the former institution before it comes to ours in the autumn of 2026.
	https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/duchamp-brothers-sister 

Noah Davis 
THROUGH APR 26 2026
Main Building, Morgan, Korman, and Field Galleries 150-155
Noah Davis began with a humble aspiration: ‘to represent the people around me’. Born in Seattle in 1983, he made LA his chosen home, where he worked to capture the intricacies of contemporary Black life with tenderness and depth. Beloved as a painter, this major retrospective presents other aspects of his practice too – from collecting photography from flea markets to making collages, websites, sculpture and eventually his own museum.
The exhibition is making its final stop at The Philadelphia Museum of Art on an international tour organized with DAS MINSK in Potsdam, the Barbican in London, and the Hammer Museum in Los Angeles. Highlights will include 40 Acres and a Unicorn (2007), a striking blend of fantasy and history; Isis (2009), a portrait of his wife Karon depicted as the Egyptian goddess; Savage Wilds (2012), a series in which Davis cast his gaze upon the complex portrayals of Black subjects on daytime television; and the renowned Pueblo del Rio series (2014), paintings that reimagine one of the oldest, largest, and most architecturally significant public housing developments in Los Angeles.

https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/noah-davis 


	Where Are We Now?: American People and Places, 1955-2025
	THROUGH APR 26 
	Main Building, Honickman Galleries 156, 157
	The installation Where Are We Now? American Places and People, 1955-2025 begins with photographs taken by Swiss-born artist Robert Frank, who, in 1955, published his book The Americans, comprised of photographs he made on an extended road trip across the United States. The book was controversial because of the almost offhand way it revealed the fissures in our national life, particularly the racism and other biases that shaped public experience.

Although Frank’s photographs unsettled many citizens, his book was something of a love letter to his adopted country. This exhibition follows his spirit and surveys photographs made by many artists who probe American experience and identity in one way or another. The question in the installation title is open-ended. The photographs on view don’t offer a simple answer. Taken together, they bring us to yet another simple question: what does it look like when we try to stick together?
	https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/where-are-we-now 

	In Her View
THROUGH MAY 18 2026
Main Building, Korman Galleries 221-223
This exhibition celebrates the remarkable paintings, drawings, and prints by women artists in the Keith and Jim Straw collection. The local Philadelphia couple began collecting art in the 1970s, when it was still relatively unusual to focus a collection on women artists. They initially pursued works by artists active in the 1800s, but over time their collection expanded to include living makers with whom the pair often built personal relationships. In celebration of the promised gift of works from the Straw collection to the Philadelphia Museum of Art, this exhibition features notable works by Lilly Martin Spencer, Suzanne Valadon, Betye Saar, Jaune Quick-to-See Smith, and Kay WalkingStick, among others. Together, these artworks celebrate the resilience and creativity of women artists through time.
https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/in-her-view-straw-collection 

	Sebastian Errazuriz: Double Take
THROUGH AUG 16 2026 
Main Building, Alter Gallery 276
The exhibition will present over 20 years of making, including early conceptual works that take nature and existing found objects as sources of inspiration, along with furniture, mirrors, and other products that the designer creates from appropriated and digitally manipulated Greco-Roman antiquities. Also on display will be a range of the designer’s “kinetic” cabinets, defined by their moveable elements. Errazuriz is interested in disrupting the idea that cabinets must consist of a box with two front doors, or "exploding the box," as the artist describes his approach. Instead, objects in Double Take propose a dynamic way of living with furniture that rotates, spins, and fans out in different directions.﻿‍﻿‍‍﻿​﻿​‌​‌﻿‌​‌﻿​​​﻿‍‍​‍​‍​‌‍​﻿‌‍﻿​​​﻿‍‍​﻿​﻿​﻿​﻿​﻿​﻿​﻿​﻿​‍​​‍﻿‌​​‍​​‌﻿​﻿‌​​​﻿‌﻿‌​﻿‌‌​﻿​‍​﻿​﻿​﻿‍​​‍﻿‌​﻿‌﻿​﻿‌​﻿‍‌​﻿‌‌​﻿‌​​﻿‌​​‍​​​‌​﻿​​​﻿​﻿​﻿​﻿‌‍​​‌​﻿‌‍​﻿‍‌​​‌﻿‌​﻿‌﻿‌﻿​﻿‌‍​﻿‌﻿​​‌﻿‌﻿​﻿‌﻿​﻿‌﻿​‍​﻿​​﻿​‌​﻿​‌​﻿​​​﻿‍​​﻿‌﻿​‍​﻿​﻿‍﻿​﻿‌﻿​﻿‌﻿​‍​﻿​‍​﻿‌​​​﻿‌‍​﻿‌﻿​﻿​﻿‌‍​﻿‌‌﻿​‍​﻿‍​‌﻿‌​​﻿​﻿​​​‌﻿‌​‌﻿‌​‌﻿​﻿‌﻿​‌‍​﻿‌‍﻿​﻿​﻿‌﻿​﻿​﻿​﻿​﻿​﻿​﻿​﻿‌﻿‌​﻿‌‌​﻿​‍​﻿​﻿​﻿‍​​‍﻿‌​﻿‌﻿​﻿‌​﻿‍‌​﻿‌‌​﻿‌​​﻿‌​​‍​​​‌​﻿​​​﻿​﻿​﻿​﻿‌‍​​‌​﻿‌‍​﻿‍‌﻿‌​‌﻿‌﻿‌﻿‌﻿​﻿‌‍​﻿‌﻿​​‌﻿‌﻿​﻿‌﻿​﻿‌﻿​‍​﻿​​﻿​‌​﻿​‌​﻿​​​﻿‍​​﻿‌﻿​‍​﻿​﻿‍﻿​﻿‌﻿​﻿‌﻿​‍​﻿​‍​﻿‌​​​﻿‌‍​﻿‌﻿​﻿​﻿‌‍​﻿‌‌﻿​‍​﻿‍​‌﻿‌
https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/sebastian-errazuriz-double-take 
 
	Fantastical Creatures of Asia 
	ONGOING
	Main Building, Galleries 320 and 321
	Fantastical Creatures of Asia brings together works that explore how artists across time and region have imagined the supernatural to express cultural values, spiritual beliefs, and contemporary concerns.

Godawari Dutta’s vibrant Madhubani painting of Vishnu’s ten incarnations and Son Man Jin’s creature-like characters inspired by ancient Chinese seal script show myth and philosophy in visual form. Korean traditions appear in the protective yet satirical pairing of the Tiger and Magpie—an image that has recently inspired globally popular animations – while Ai Weiwei’s heluo fish with ten bodies, reimagined in plastic bricks and bearing the artist’s own face, brings humor and provocation while questioning assumptions about materials and meaning.

Together, these works reveal Asia’s enduring imagination of fantastical beings and the stories they can tell.
	https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/fantastical-creatures-of-asia 
	
	Julie Mehretu: In Focus
	THROUGH MAY 10 
	Main Building, Colket Gallery 251
	The museum recently acquired two monumental print series, Treatises on the Executed (from Robin’s Intimacy) and This Manifestation of Historical Restlessness (from Robin’s Intimacy) – each fourteen-feet-long and comprised of ten panels printed from the same fifty copper plates. The works are the result of an intensive and multi-year collaboration between Mehretu and Case Hudson, veteran printer at the LA-based printmaking workshop, Gemini G.E.L, along with a team of etchers. Initiated during Mehretu’s residency at the workshop in 2019, the prints are as complex and intricate in technique as they are in imagery: made through a combination of etching and aquatint and inked in the à la poupée manner, a technique that involves hand-applying ink to selective etched areas of a plate and then expertly wiping it away from other areas. Together, the works showcase the high velocity of Mehretu in action: her bold, calligraphic marks, her insistent lines and notations that never fully disclose their meanings.
	https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/julie-mehretu-in-focus 

	Visions of the Land in Japan 
	THROUGH JUL 1 
	Main Building, Gallery 342 
	Representing the land we live in is a practice shared across the world. In Japan, artists created a large body of landscape imagery that ranged from indigenous yamato-style depictions to portrayals of nature that incorporated Chinese and later Euro-American ideas and techniques.
When Zen Buddhist monks introduced Chinese ink painting to Japan around 1300, the new art form offered a fresh approach. Chinese paintings became prized collectibles for Buddhist temples and for the ruling class, and served as indispensable models for Japanese artists who aspired to master painting with ink and brush.
Over the centuries that followed, Japanese artists developed singular visions of their land, which encompassed idealized, imaginary views and true-to-life renditions. More influences arrived in the 1550s through encounters with Euro-American art, providing another source of inspiration for these artists’ expanding horizons.
Drawing from the collection, including some recent gifts, the museum here presents Japanese paintings and ceramics that span more than five hundred years—from 1500s to the present. These works not only showcase the evolution and expansion of artistic expressions of the land in Japan but also supply glimpses into Japan’s shifting cultural and social landscapes.
	https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/visions-of-the-land-edo-japan 

	Framed! European Picture Frames From the Johnson Collection 
	THROUGH JUNE 
	Gallery 373
	The installation highlights picture frames as works of art in their own right, exploring their shifting forms and functions from the altar-like frames of the Renaissance to the experimental, artist-designed frames of the late 1800s. It will include 13 frames from the Johnson Collection, which, together, express the craftsmanship and variety of European frames through the centuries. 
	https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/framed-johnson-collection 

	Expanding Paintings in the 1960s and 1970s 
	ONGOING
	Edna and Stanley Tuttleman Gallery 274
	Explore radical innovations in painting that testify to a pursuit of freedom and expression in the midst of a period marked by social and political unrest in the United States and abroad. From Alma Thomas’s mosaic-like painting of flowers to Sam Gilliam’s suspended, draped canvas, these works speak to an upending of barriers—be they artistic, ideological, racial, or rooted in gender stereotypes. By rethinking and systematically probing conventions associated with the painted canvas, these works ultimately speak to the desire for a deeper, more fundamental connection to nature, the body, movement, and light.
https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/expanded-painting-1960s-and-1970s 

	European Galleries
	ONGOING
	Galleries of European Art 1850-1900, 2nd Floor
	Experience our astonishing collection of Impressionist art like never before in our newly refreshed and reinstalled nineteenth-century European galleries. The thoughtful new arrangement features inspired groupings—luminous landscapes, unconventional nudes—and places paintings side by side with sculpture, furniture, prints, and even wallpaper to reveal shared sources of inspiration among the era’s greatest artists. The galleries culminate in the beautiful Rotunda, which now houses some of our best-loved works by Claude Monet, Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, Berthe Morisot, Vincent van Gogh, and others.
	https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/new-european-galleries 
	
	Early American Galleries 
	ONGOING
	McNeil Galleries 100-108
	Trace the origins of our city’s extraordinary creativity in our new Early American Art galleries. The 10,000-square-foot space has been installed to tell the story of how Philadelphia became the young nation’s cultural capital, and how Black, Indigenous, and Latin American artists contributed to the development of American art.
Stroll through spacious, beautifully lit galleries—a highlight of the museum’s extensive renovation project—featuring our unparalleled collections of paintings, ceramics, furniture, glass, silver, and more.
A portion of the American Art Galleries (Galleries 202 through 218) will be closed through spring 2026.
	https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/new-early-american-galleries 
	
	Chinese Galleries
	ONGOING
	Galleries 326 & 333–336
	Rediscover four thousand years of the art of China in our Chinese galleries. Go deeper into the stories behind the objects, grouped thematically in four eye-opening sections: Belief in the Afterlife, Nature and Self-Cultivation, Exchanges with the West, and Order in the Imperial Court.
The new installation features recently conserved works, improved lighting, and a wide variety of objects, including a stunning collection of costumes and textiles, photographs, and contemporary art on view together for the first time.
Blue-and-White Porcelain Plates by Ai Weiwei
In gallery 335, a series of plates by contemporary Chinese artist and activist Ai Weiwei comments on the forced migration of millions of people during the recent global refugee crisis. The artist can relate to feelings of displacement—the artist and his family were exiled to western China during the Cultural Revolution of 1966–76.
	https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/chinese-galleries 

	Diego Rivera: Frescoes 
	ONGOING
	Black and Gallos Gallery 273
	In the 1920s and 1930s, a vogue for Mexican art in the United States drew prominent Mexican painters northward. In this installation are two of five portable murals that Diego Rivera created in New York for display in an exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art in 1931.
	https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/diego-rivera-frescoes 
	
	Collection Highlight: Ceremonial Teahouse
	ONGOING
	SmithKline Beecham Gallery 344, 3rd floor
	The name of this teahouse, Sunkaraku (Evanescent Joys), reflects the spirit of the traditional Japanese tea ceremony as a temporary refuge from the complexities of daily life. The architecture reveals a special delight in natural materials, such as bamboo and cedar.
Using elements from an eighteenth-century teahouse, Ōgi Rodō designed this retreat around 1917 for the grounds of his Tokyo home. Among the guests he hosted at Sunkaraku were Japanese financial and political leaders for whom he designed country homes and teahouses. Acquired by the museum from the architect in 1928, this is the only example of his work outside Japan. It is still used for tea ceremonies on special occasions.
https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/collection-highlight-ceremonial-teahouse 

	Collection Highlight: Temple Hall
	ONGOING
	Caplan Gallery 324, 3rd floor
	Debuting to the public in the museum’s original home at Memorial Hall in 1920, the mandapam opened at its current location in 1940. Although a reconstruction, it incorporates many original architectural elements and provides visitors with a unique opportunity to experience the extraordinary synthesis of sculpture, architecture, and symbol that characterizes South India’s elaborate temple form.
	https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/collection-highlight-temple-hall 
	
	Duchamp Galleries 
	ONGOING
	Gallery 281 & d’Harnoncourt Gallery 282
	Some works are temporarily off view while we prepare to lend artworks to the Museum of Modern Art for the special exhibition Marcel Duchamp, on view in New York from April 12 through August 2. The Philadelphia Museum of Art will present this exhibition in the Dorrance Galleries starting in October 2026.
	https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/duchamp-galleries 
	
	Arts of the Islamic World 
	ONGOING
	Islam began over 1,400 years ago in the Arabian Peninsula and soon spread across Asia, Africa, and Europe. Today Muslims live on every continent and make up a quarter of the world’s population. The term “Islamic Art” refers to a variety of artwork made by and for Muslims over the centuries. Here are some exquisite examples drawn from the museum’s collection.
	https://www.philamuseum.org/exhibitions/arts-islamic-world 

		
                                                               
  - Houston: 
MFAH
General museum link: https://www.mfah.org/art/exhibitions/frida-the-making-of-an-icon?utm_source=google&utm_medium=performance_max&utm_campaign=frida_kahlo&gad_source=1&gad_campaignid=23533178827&gbraid=0AAAAADfn3cMBoK9kIB83DhhAEZwydu9It&gclid=CjwKCAjwwJzPBhBREiwAJfHRnWJmwXEkNuxzmXbXcufCcG__duaTTgL6ibFuijVqJpJMwuTxfWPTBRoCmMgQAvD_BwE 
Ticket link: https://www.mfah.org/tickets 
Admissions info: 
	MFAH Members Free
	All Access (19+) $24
	All Access (65+ with ID) $20
	All Access (13-18) $20
	All Access (12 & younger) Free
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://www.mfah.org/art#nowonviewmasonry 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL

	Frida: The Making of an Icon
	THROUGH MAY 17 2026 
	Caroline Wiess Law Building
	Frida Kahlo’s art has resonated with millions of individuals around the globe. This exhibition tells the story of how she became one of the world’s most influential artists. 
Devoted to Frida Kahlo’s life and legacy, Frida: The Making of an Icon premieres at the MFAH in January 2026. This monumental exhibition features more than 30 works by the legendary Mexican artist and 120 by five generations of artists she inspired.
Practically unknown to mainstream audiences during her lifetime (1907–1954), Kahlo has been enshrined since the mid-1970s as the only female artist whose instant audience recognition and mass appeal rival those of male artists Vincent van Gogh, Pablo Picasso, and Andy Warhol.
Since the 1980s, retrospective exhibitions around the world have explored Kahlo’s artistic production and contributions to 20th-century Modernism. By contrast, Frida: The Making of an Icon is the first major exploration of the artist’s transformation from a relatively unknown local painter to a universal icon and global brand. Departing from the traditional retrospective format, the exhibition revolves around a selection of Kahlo’s masterworks, memorabilia, and documents from her archives, as well as a vast array of works from artists across artistic and social movements who were inspired by her practice. A special gallery addresses the status of Kahlo’s legacy as a pop-culture figure.
	https://www.mfah.org/art/exhibitions/frida-the-making-of-an-icon 

	Ernesto Neto: SunForceOceanLife
	THROUGH SEP 7 2026
	Caroline Wiess Law Building
	Engage with art like never before through hands-on exploration of this installation made especially for the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston. 
 
Returning to the Museum’s vast Cullinan Hall this spring and summer, Ernesto Neto: SunForceOceanLife is a soaring crochet installation that fills the space with spiraling color and movement. A major MFAH commission by renowned Brazilian artist Ernesto Neto, SunForceOceanLife suspends visitors some 12 feet in the air as they navigate an interior network of hand-woven passages.
 
Rooted in a crochet technique passed down from Neto’s grandmother, the work merges craft traditions with contemporary practice. As part of the Museum’s ongoing engagement with Latin American art, Ernesto Neto: SunForceOceanLife joins a lineage of immersive installations that connect viewers to ideas of ecology, spirituality, and sensory awareness.
	https://www.mfah.org/art/exhibitions/ernesto-neto-sunforceoceanlife-26 

	Buddha / Nature: Five Dialogues on Our Shared World
	THROUGH MAY 10 2026
	Audrey Jones Beck Building
	Highlighting the connection between spiritual forms and the natural world through the millennia, the exquisite works in this exhibition bring Buddhist ideals to bear in the present.
 
Buddha / Nature: Five Dialogues on Our Shared World traces a path through Buddhist wisdom using both ancient sculpture and contemporary art to illuminate the ecological and ethical questions of our time. Five remarkable works from the Xuzhou Collection, on long-term loan to the Museum since 2021, anchor the exhibition and appear for the first time in a fully contemporary setting at the MFAH.
 
The exhibition unfolds across five galleries, each with a unique focus:
 
Samsara introduces the interwoven cycles of life through Beverly Penn’s new commission Samsara, made from invasive plants cast in bronze and paired with the 12th-century Tibetan Wisdom Buddha.


Impermanence brings together Hiroshi Sugimoto’s Mount Fuji—a sweeping image of dawn on twin folding screens—with a meditating Buddha from ancient Gandhara, evoking the fragile balance between permanence and sudden change.


Karma examines historical reckoning through a 6th-century terracotta Buddha flanked by works from Cannupa Hanska Luger and Erick Swenson, two distinct visions of humanity’s relationship with nature.


Compassion pairs a Chinese Buddha triad with Liu Xiaodong’s large-scale portraits of families and migrants, extending empathy across social, cultural, and ecological boundaries.


Awakening concludes the exhibition with Beili Liu stitching red thread in the Arctic Circle, her patient gestures mirrored by an 8th-century Buddha head whose power endures even in fragment.
The timeless sculptures from the Xuzhou Collection were created as touchstones to something greater, links between humanity and the divine. In Buddha / Nature, that mediating force turns toward the present, inviting visitors to reflect, recalibrate, and consider the part each of us plays in shaping a world in flux.
	https://www.mfah.org/art/exhibitions/buddhanature 

	2026 Core Exhibition
	THROUGH MAY 1 2026
	Glassell School of Art 
	This exhibition brings together work by the 2026–27 Core Fellows at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston’s Glassell School of Art. It marks the first public presentation of work produced during their residency and offers a snapshot of current work—ideas tested, materials explored, and questions sharpened through sustained time and support.
 
Participants in the 2025–27 Core Program are artists-in-residence June Canedo de Souza, MJ Daines, and Jewan Goo, as well as critic-in-residence Jana La Brasca.
	https://www.mfah.org/art/exhibitions/2026-core-exhibition 

	Peter Bradley and “The De Luxe Show”
	THROUGH MAY 31 2026
	Caroline Wiess Law Building
	View both historic and contemporary works from the artists included in Peter Bradley's The De Luxe Show, the landmark 1971 exhibition in Houston's Fifth Ward that committed to crossing racial lines and bringing “first-rate art to people who don’t usually attend shows."  

Peter Bradley (born 1940) worked at the center of elite art circles in the 1960s and 1970s as an associate director at New York’s Perls Galleries. A noted member of the Color Field avant-garde, Bradley built his paintings upon nuanced chromatic harmonies. In 1971, at the invitation of John and Dominique de Menil, Bradley curated The De Luxe Show, one of the first racially integrated exhibitions of contemporary art in the United States. Opening in August of that year at the De LUXE Theater in Houston’s Fifth Ward, the exhibition presented both internationally recognized and emerging artists, promoting abstraction and crossing racial lines in an era defined by sweeping social upheaval. 
Alongside Bradley’s signature canvases from the early 1970s and two recent lithographs that demonstrate his continued creative exploration, Peter Bradley and “The De Luxe Show” includes works by Anthony Caro, Sam Gilliam, and Larry Poons. All four artists were shown in the original exhibition and shared pioneering practices: freeing sculpture from pedestal, canvas from stretcher, and paint from brush.
	https://www.mfah.org/art/exhibitions/peter-bradley-and-the-de-luxe-show 
	
	Art, Place, and Power: Project Row Houses in Houston’s Third Ward
	THROUGH NOV 8 2026
	Audrey Jones Beck Building 
	Learn more about the founding members of Project Row Houses, one of Houston's leading community-oriented arts organizations.
 
In 1993, seven Black artists transformed a block of abandoned row houses in Houston’s Third Ward neighborhood into a new kind of cultural space. Rather than regarding the structures as ruins of the past, these visionaries saw in them the foundation of something new. Believing that creativity and collective action could reshape both the built environment and people’s lives, the artists established Project Row Houses, an arts and community revitalization organization that for over three decades has staged free exhibitions, offered artist residencies and youth programs, promoted the preservation of historic architecture, and more. 
 
The installation Art, Place, and Power: Project Row Houses in Houston’s Third Ward features works on paper by founders of Project Row Houses, including James Bettison, Bert Long, Jr., Jesse Lott, Rick Lowe, and Floyd Newsum, and is shown in conjunction with Textiles in Dialogue: The Design Works of Bedford Stuyvesant. Like the nearby textiles produced in Brooklyn’s Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood, these works celebrate the powerful impact of community-oriented artists and art.
https://www.mfah.org/art/exhibitions/art-place-and-power-project-row-houses-in-houstons-third-ward 
	
	Yayoi Kusama “Aftermath of Obliteration of Eternity”
	THROUGH WINTER 2027
	Nancy and Rich Kinder Building
	Yayoi Kusama (Japanese, born 1929) was living in New York when she created her first Infinity Room in 1965. Engaging the viewer directly, through reflections that project into an infinite distance, these installations combine aspects of Minimalism’s clean use of industrial materials with ritual and performance. Kusama returned to Japan in 1970, and subsequent works became increasingly personal. She marked her 80th birthday with Aftermath of Obliteration of Eternity, which references the annual Buddhist Tōrō nagashi (Water Lantern) ceremony honoring one’s ancestors.
When you visit this installation, you are invited to step into the room and stand on the central platform. Over time, a delicate, shimmering mirage unfolds, as lights ignite and are mirrored on every surface. In less than a minute, however, all light disappears—and then the cycle starts anew.
https://www.mfah.org/art/exhibitions/yayoi-kusama-aftermath-of-obliteration-of-eternity 
	
	The Jewelry of Dorothea Prühl 
	THROUGH JAN 3 2027
	Nancy and Rich Kinder Building 
	A celebration of sculptural form and material mastery, The Jewelry of Dorothea Prühl marks the first U.S. exhibition dedicated to the German artist. Spanning nearly five decades of her work, this presentation features a series of necklaces and brooches that exemplify Dorothea Prühl’s visionary approach to contemporary jewelry.
Internationally recognized for her bold, expressive forms crafted in wood and metal, Prühl (born 1937) trained in the traditions of the Bauhaus. Her expressive compositions and seemingly simple gestures belie a complexity and degree of craftsmanship that is unmatched in contemporary practice. Each element is painstakingly carved or formed, resulting in compositions that feel both monumental and intimate. 
Prühl attended the Burg Giebichenstein University of Art and Design in Halle, Germany, and returned to lead its jewelry and metalsmithing department for many years. In addition to shaping her own body of work, Prühl influenced generations of artists through her long career as a teacher and mentor. 
Comprised of necklaces and brooches dating from 1976 to 2025, The Jewelry of Dorothea Prühl is the result of an extraordinary gift from the Rotasa Collection Trust. The MFAH now holds the largest public collection of Prühl’s jewelry in the world.
	https://www.mfah.org/art/exhibitions/jewelry-of-dorothea-pruhl 
	
	Sea of Ink, Forest of Pens: The Art of the Qur’an in the Hossein Afshar Collection
	THROUGH JUN 28 2026 
	Caroline Wiess Law Building
	Celebrating the art of the Qurʾan and the publication of the book Sea of Ink, Forest of Pens: The Art of the Qurʾan in the Hossein Afshar Collection, this presentation highlights a dozen masterworks that span the 7th to 19th century, shedding light on the production of deluxe Qurʾan manuscripts from across Islamic lands over more than 1,200 years. In addition, two contemporary works from the MFAH collection respond to the Qurʾan in unique ways. 
The Qurʾan is the Arabic-language earthly scripture of God’s divine, eternal speech. Calligraphy, the art of beautiful writing, enhances the spiritual, philosophical, and semantic significance of the Qurʾan by enriching it through ornamentation. 
Highlights
Folio from a Qurʾan Manuscript
Written in Hijazi script style on parchment, this mid-7th-century folio from Saudi Arabia is from one of the earliest copies of the Qurʾan, of which only pages and fragments survive. 
Qurʾan Manuscript
A beautifully illuminated work from Iran, dated AH 1260/1844–45, this manuscript is signed and dated by calligrapher Mir ʿAbd al-Karim Muhammad Sadiq al-Husayni al-Yazdi.
Pouran Jinchi’s Tajvid Red 2
This contemporary ink-on-paper scroll from 2009 interprets one of the most important aspects of the Qurʾan: its tajvid, or proper recitation. The work highlights the rhythmic and performative quality of the calligraphic act by shifting the viewer’s attention from a word’s meaning to its sound. 
Haji Noor Deen’s Ayat al-Kursi Scroll
In this 2015 work, master calligrapher Haji Noor Deen combines the discipline of the Islamic calligraphic reed pen with the flowing style of the Chinese calligraphic brush by using Sini Arabic script to copy the Ayat al-Kursi, or Throne Verse, a widely recited and inscribed Qurʾanic verse believed to offer protection over homes and families.
https://www.mfah.org/art/exhibitions/sea-of-ink-forest-of-pens-the-art-of-the-quran-in-the-hossein-afshar-collection 

	Harry Bertoia: Echoes in Space 
	THROUGH WINTER 2027 
	Nancy and Rich Kinder Building
	Harry Bertoia, an Italian immigrant, was at the vanguard of 20th-century American postwar Modernism. An artist, designer, and craftsperson, Bertoia (1915–1978) ushered in a new era of creative experimentation.
Harry Bertoia: Echoes in Space traces three decades of his extraordinary sculptural pursuits in metal, from the early 1950s through the 1970s. Drawn largely from the MFAH collections, the installation features more than a dozen works by Bertoia, including a monumental brass and copper multiplane construction from the early 1950s as his artistic outlook found kinship with Modernist architecture. Echoes in Space follows Bertoia’s search to capture nature’s radiance through light and movement. Sculptures refer to dandelions, bushes, cacti, and trees, including those often known as Willows—bundled wire forms that release into shimmering curtains, much the way a willow tree’s branches bend toward the earth.
Bertoia was fascinated with the relationship between form and sound, and he avidly pursued metal’s sonic possibilities. Three sound sculptures—one more than 11 feet tall—highlight Bertoia’s aural and visual achievements. Visitors have the rare opportunity to hear these remarkable sound sculptures activated in the galleries. Sound activations are scheduled every day at 2:30 pm.
https://www.mfah.org/art/exhibitions/harry-bertoia-echoes-in-space  

	Albert and Ethel Herzstein Gallery for Judaica
	ONGOING
	Caroline Wiess Law Building
	The Museum’s gallery for Judaica creates a permanent presence for works of art made for Jewish communities around the world to fulfill the practice of their faith. More than two dozen objects are presented in the inaugural installation of the gallery, which has been endowed by the Albert and Ethel Herzstein Charitable Foundation.
The installation benefits from a partnership with the Jewish Museum in New York City, which launched in 2022 with the exhibition Beauty and Ritual: Judaica from the Jewish Museum, New York. The gallery is also an important component of the World Faiths Initiative, which explores the central role of religion and faith in many works of art in the MFAH collections and exhibitions.
The opening of the Albert and Ethel Herzstein Gallery for Judaica completes the suite of galleries in the Law Building developed to reflect the diversity of Houston’s communities. The galleries adjacent to the Herzstein Gallery are devoted to the arts of Korea, Japan, India, China, and the Islamic worlds.
The Herzstein Gallery features an outstanding collection of historical Judaica recently acquired by the MFAH. Among the highlights are an early-19th-century silver and gold Torah Shield, an especially precious 14th-century illustrated prayer book, and rare 5th-century oil lamp. Loans from other Houston collections are also included.
The MFAH has an important Torah on loan from the Memorial Scrolls Trust in London. In the early 1960s, the rabbi and congregation of the city’s Westminster Synagogue purchased 1564 scrolls from the Czech government and founded the Memorial Scrolls Trust. The trust repaired the scrolls, housed them, and has lent them to Jewish congregations, museums, and other organizations around the world. The Torah on view is from Boskovice, a town in the present-day Czech Republic. Boskovice had a long Jewish history and a vibrant Jewish community that was destroyed by the Nazis in World War II. In 1942, the Germans commanded that Torah scrolls and Judaica objects be sent to Prague. Many scrolls, including the 1869 Boskovice scroll with its rare silver Atzei Chaim, actually survived the war after being stored for more than 20 years in the former Michle Synagogue in Prague.
https://www.mfah.org/art/galleries/albert-and-ethel-herzstein-gallery-for-judaica 
	
	Galleries for Art of the Islamic Worlds 
	ONGOING
	Caroline Wiess Law Building
	The Museum’s galleries for art of the Islamic worlds present, for the first time, the full extent of the MFAH holdings in Islamic art, enhanced by a significant selection of Persian masterworks on extended loan from the distinguished collection of Hossein Afshar. Carefully assembled over the past 50 years, the Afshar Collection conveys the rich artistic traditions of Iranian civilization from the 7th to 19th century, in exquisite paintings, significant ceramics, precious inlaid metal ware, and finely woven silk fabrics and carpets.
The MFAH has devoted permanent gallery space to Islamic art since 2012, and the new Afshar galleries nearly double previous display space for Islamic art. Hundreds of objects spanning more than 1,000 years reflect the breadth of historic Islamic lands, including present-day Afghanistan, Egypt, India, Iran, Iraq, Morocco, Pakistan, Spain, Syria, Tunisia, Türkiye, and Uzbekistan.
Gallery Overview
With nearly 6,000 square feet of space, the galleries highlight a trove of major, and in many cases rare, objects never before displayed in such depth. Showcasing the similarities and diversity of art across cultures, communities, regions, and time, the presentation is organized into six galleries that outline fundamental aspects of Islamic art.
Introduction to Art of the Islamic Worlds
Early Iranian Art from the Hossein Afshar Collection
Later Iranian Art from the Hossein Afshar Collection
Sacred and Secular Arts of the Book
Blue and White between China and Iran
The Fabric of Life: Textiles and Carpets of Islamic Lands
	https://www.mfah.org/art/galleries/galleries-art-islamic-worlds 
	
	Arts of Korea Gallery
	ONGOING
	Caroline Wiess Law Building 
	The Arts of Korea Gallery focuses on the dynamic epoch of the Joseon dynasty, showcasing objects from that 500-year era as well as interpretations by three contemporary artists. Works from the growing MFAH collection of Korean art are on view along with prestigious loans from the National Museum of Korea.
Established in 2007, the Arts of Korea Gallery is the first gallery dedicated to Korean art in the American South. The MFAH holdings and displays of Korean art have expanded significantly through important loans, gifts, and major acquisitions. The art spans centuries of artistic production from Korea and includes scholars’ accessories, ritual ceramics, ink paintings, decorative objects from everyday life, and works by contemporary artists Ran Hwang, Geejo Lee, and Lee Ufan.
The new installation, unveiled in May 2024, completely transforms the Arts of Korea Gallery, embodying the austere beauty and artistic restraint of Korea’s Joseon period in concert with the sleek, cutting-edge aesthetics of contemporary Korea. Among the highlights is a recent MFAH acquisition: Ran Hwang’s First Wind—CL, made from thousands of buttons hammered into panels. This monumental masterwork represents the gates of the great Joseon palaces of Seoul, showing the enduring beauty and importance of Korean art.
The 19th-century folding screen Seven Jeweled Mountain depicts, in 10 panels, a panorama of the legendary mountain range renowned for its distinctive topography and said to contain seven treasures. A selection of porcelain ritual bowls and vessels reflects the rites of passage—coming-of-age, wedding, funeral, and ancestor worship—of the Confucian values upheld by the scholar class.
Together, these objects illuminate the beauty and artistry of Korean culture across generations.
	https://www.mfah.org/art/galleries/arts-of-korea-gallery 

	Contemporary Art of the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston
	ONGOING 
	Nancy and Rich Kinder Building
	The Nancy and Rich Kinder Building is dedicated to the Museum’s international collections of modern and contemporary art. The soaring spaces feature displays that span media encompassing painting and sculpture, craft and design, video, and immersive installations.
The third-floor galleries are devoted to thematic exhibitions, with installations of art from the 1960s onward.
Behind the Wheel evokes car culture as an American touchstone of contemporary life. Artists have embraced the form and materials of cars and highways to represent varying degrees of leisure, belonging, independence, and power. Shopping centers, roadside cafes, motels, drive-in movies, and gas stations are all physical manifestations. Examples range from Ishimoto Yasuhiro’s homage to childhood and the station wagon to Mutual Concerns by Chakaia Booker, who tears apart rubber tires to reassemble and renew them as lyrical abstractions. 
Energy illustrates this phenomenon as a natural and metaphysical resource through photography, prints, drawings, paintings, sculptures, rare books, craft, and design. Photographs of oil refineries and electrical sites, and paintings by John Alexander and Rackstraw Downes, document the romance of the Texas oil landscape. Lighting devices by Rody Graumans and Ingo Maurer honor the light bulb in a reinterpretation of form and challenge to the meaning of energy and industry. Works by Teresita Fernandez, Richard Misrach, and David Regan illuminate the beauty, majesty, and destructive power of nature’s force.
Color into Light showcases work by artists celebrated for their study of color dynamics, including Josef Albers, Carlos Cruz-Diez, Sam Gilliam, Hans Hofmann, Ellsworth Kelly, Hélio Oiticica, Fanny Sanín, and Ettore Sottsass. Additional works on view include neon reliefs by Gyula Kosice and Keith Sonnier; investigations of transparency by Marta Chilindron, Fred Eversley, and Shiro Kuramata; and photographs by John Mark Hall and Gerhard Richter.
Line into Space examines how artists explore line in multiple dimensions and media, from works on paper to jewelry, three-dimensional constructions, and furniture. This installation features works by Gego, including drawings, sculptures, and watercolor, presented with selections by artists including Ruth Asawa, Georg Dobler, Naum Gabo, Joris Laarman, Agnes Martin, and Tone Vigeland.
Material Presence features artists who have rejected traditional media and genre boundaries. In their hands, the material support—be it plaster, plastic, canvas, or stone—has an active presence. Ai Weiwei’s Water Lilies #4 uses LEGO® bricks to reinterpret Claude Monet’s most beloved series, and Sam Gilliam’s sweeping Double Merge (Carousel I and Carousel II) liberates painting from the wall. Among the other works on view are Los Carpinteros’s Podgaric Toy, a critical assessment of Cold War memorials made from LEGO® bricks; and Rachel Whiteread’s monumental Untitled (Fire Escape).
	https://www.mfah.org/art/galleries/contemporary-art 

	
Midcentury Menu: Dining in the Atomic Age
	THROUGH JUL 31 2026 
	Rienzi
The end of World War II ushered in an exciting era of economic prosperity and technological advancement that changed how Americans thought about food. Through popular media, particularly magazines and television, advertisers encouraged the use of technology to create the ideal home. They marketed a modern, aspirational lifestyle to women while promoting prepared foods and myriad new appliances celebrated for their convenience and efficiency. 
 
Food and home entertaining took center stage in this new age of abundance, and a wide range of cookbooks promoted everything from curious Jell-O salads to international cuisine. Made possible by an elaborate supply chain and the latest technology, midcentury tables were filled with a wide variety of good that reflected changing tastes and ideas about modern living. Drawing from Rienzi’s historical cookbook collection and loans from the Heritage Society, this exhibition explores how convenience, technology, advertising, gender, and labor converged to redefine the meaning of food in postwar America.
https://www.mfah.org/art/exhibitions/midcentury-menu-dining-in-the-atomic-age 
	
	George Washington: American’s Enduring Icon
	THROUGH NOV 22 2026
	Bayou Bend Collection and Gardens
George Washington: America’s Enduring Icon includes objects from the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries featuring images of George Washington during his lifetime, as well as many that mourned or honored him after his death. The exhibition examines the many ways that Americans have recognized, honored, celebrated, memorialized, and appropriated the memory of Washington.	https://www.mfah.org/art/exhibitions/george-washington-americas-enduring-icon 

	Good Times with Ernie Barnes and Alexis Pye
	THROUGH JUL 5 2026
	Nancy and Rich Kinder Building
Ernie Barnes’s iconic The Sugar Shack (1976) returns to the MFAH, on view in a special installation that also features Oh joy! Long time no see (2023) by Houston-based artist Alexis Pye.
As a teenager, Barnes (1938–2009) snuck into the Durham Armory, a North Carolina “juke joint” offering refuge and release to citizens in the segregated South of the Jim Crow era. He revisited this memory in the painting The Sugar Shack, which became a nationally celebrated icon when it was added to the end credits of the Good Times television series. “Music and dancing were an integral part of my identity,” Barnes said. “As a professional athlete, I was able to move about the country and explore every dive I could find and there was always a Sugar Shack.”
Pye (born 1995) recalls the impact that Good Times, along with leading character J.J.—who was an aspiring artist—and The Sugar Shack had on her imagination growing up. “Long before I knew what an artist was, or that I could be one, J.J. was the only model I had. That iconic painting has found its way into countless Black households [and] my work honors that inheritance. It’s about making art from what’s sacred in everyday life: movement, music, memory. It’s about the house party, the rhythm of community, and the people we become in those shared spaces. This is a continuation of a legacy, not just of image-making, but of living, dancing, and becoming through art.”	https://www.mfah.org/art/exhibitions/good-times-with-ernie-barnes-and-alexis-pye 
		
	Arts of Islamic Lands: Selections from The al-Sabah Collection, Kuwait
	ONGOING
	Caroline Wiess Law Building 
	The Museum’s landmark partnership with the Kuwait-based al-Sabah Collection and the cultural institution Dar al-Athar al-Islamiyyah continues with an expanded installation of Arts of Islamic Lands: Selections from The al-Sabah Collection, Kuwait.
The renowned al-Sabah Collection is one of the greatest privately held collections of Islamic art in the world. The collaboration with the Museum, established in 2012, led to the 2013 Houston debut of 67 objects ranging from carpets and architectural fragments to exquisite ceramics, metalwork, jewelry, scientific instruments, and manuscripts.
This expanded installation more than triples the display, increasing the art on view to some 250 works that, together, present an impressive and comprehensive spectrum of Islamic art. Objects from the 8th to 18th century—made in North Africa, the Middle East, Türkiye, India, the Iberian Peninsula, and Central Asia—demonstrate the development of techniques, craftsmanship, and aesthetics in Islamic visual culture.
Among the highlights are a 16th-century Ottoman Turkish prayer carpet; a glass mosque lamp from 14th-century Cairo; an extraordinary earthenware bowl from 9th-century Iraq that transcends its humble function; early gold jewelry from Afghanistan and Syria; and opulent Mughal jewelry crafted in the refined kundan technique, including a brilliant bird pendant fabricated in late 16th-century India from gold, rubies, emeralds, diamonds, and rock crystals.
https://www.mfah.org/art/galleries/arts-of-islamic-lands-selections-from-the-al-sabah-collection-kuwait 

	Simone Leigh’s “Satellite”
	ONGOING
	Nancy and Rich Kinder Building
	The towering bronze sculpture Satellite, by American artist Simone Leigh, stands near the entry plaza of the Nancy and Rich Kinder Building. Satellite was the centerpiece of the artist’s project for the American Pavilion at the 59th Venice Biennale in 2022. The MFAH is the first U.S. museum to acquire and install this monumental bronze in a permanent display. Houston’s Satellite is the second edition of this now-iconic work.
Weighing nearly 6,000 pounds, the 24-foot-high Satellite comprises two elements: a torso with four supports, and a disc-like head. With its evocations of maternity and dignity, the sculpture expresses Leigh’s intent to honor the historically undervalued labor—both physical and intellectual—of Black women.
	https://www.mfah.org/art/galleries/simone-leighs-satellite 

	Do Ho Suh’s “Portal”
	ONGOING
	Nancy and Rich Kinder Building
	Commissioned by the MFAH and produced with support from collaborators in Colorado, Maryland, and New York, Do Ho Suh’s Portal is installed in the Kinder Building, adjacent to the entrance of the Glassell School of Art.
Do Ho Suh describes Portal as an “impossible” sculpture—at once monumental, weighing nine tons—and seemingly ephemeral, as the exquisitely milled acrylic captures light and reflection, essentially transparent as it encases the image of a traditional Korean gate in negative space.
Portal stands near two other major works commissioned for the opening of the Kinder Building: Ólafur Elíasson’s Sometimes an underground movement is an illuminated bridge and Ai Weiwei’s Dragon Reflection.
The concepts of home, displacement, and transitional spaces are touchstones across Suh’s career. Portal summons the artist’s powerful family legacy, shaped by Korea’s history of war and colonial oppression in the 20th century, which destroyed much of the capital city, Seoul. In the years of reconstruction that followed, Do Ho Suh’s father, Suh Se Ok, himself a renowned artist, built a home for the family with a classical entry portal based on an 18th-century gate.
	https://www.mfah.org/art/galleries/do-ho-suhs-portal 

	Spanish Viceregal Paintings from the Thoma Collection
	ONGOING
	Audrey Jones Beck Building 	
	The Museum presents a selection of Spanish viceregal paintings from the celebrated collection of Carl and Marilynn Thoma.
The Spanish colonization of Latin America began with the creation in 1535 of the viceroyalty of New Spain, which comprised present-day Mexico, Central America, and parts of the southern United States. The viceroyalty of Peru—made up of present-day South America, except for Brazil and the far south—followed in 1542. Peru would later be subdivided by the formation of the viceroyalties of New Granada and the Rio de la Plata.
In the 16th century, European artists traveled to Latin America to meet the huge demand for artistic creations in newly established religious institutions. Sometimes, family workshops were founded that lasted generations. By the 17th century, artists born in Latin America began to dominate, and new styles and idioms emerged that had less and less to do with European origins. The 18th century saw the full flowering of Spanish viceregal art, as regional schools and academies developed and influential patrons demanded both religious and secular paintings of the highest quality.
https://www.mfah.org/art/galleries/spanish-colonial-painting-thoma-collection 

	Eye on Houston: High School Documentary Photography 
	THROUGH WINTER 2027
Glassell School of Art	
Students from local high schools share their unique views of Houston.
 
The annual exhibition Eye on Houston: High School Documentary Photography documents and celebrates Houston’s diverse neighborhoods through an ongoing collaboration between the Houston Independent School District and the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston.


Houston is a global city, with strengths in business, trade, entertainment, culture, media, fashion, science, sports, technology, education, medicine, and research. The area’s more than six million people represent a variety of ethnic and religious backgrounds, and a large, growing international community. As a result, Houston is often described as one of the most ethnically and culturally diverse metropolitan areas in both Texas and the United States.


In its 31st year, Eye on Houston features images by students representing nine high schools: Bellaire, Carnegie Vanguard, DeBakey, Eastwood Academy, Lamar, Waltrip, Washington, Westbury, and Yates. The students documented daily life in their respective communities, capturing moments that reflect their sense of self, their future, and their imminent transition into adulthood. Eye on Houston offers students from neighborhoods throughout the city an opportunity to share their unique views of Houston.
https://www.mfah.org/art/exhibitions/eye-on-houston-high-school-documentary-photography-2026 



The Menil Collection     
General museum link: https://www.menil.org/ 
Ticket link: https://www.menil.org/visit 
Admissions info: Free admission (no tickets or passes necessary)
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://www.menil.org/search?q=exhibits 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL   

	Photography from The Menil Collection: Curated by Wendy Watriss
	DEC 12 2025 - AUG 16 2026
	Main Building
	Photography from The Menil Collection: Curated by Wendy Watriss is a presentation of documentary-style photographs that underscore how images can ignite conversation about diverse social realities. The exhibition features work by Larry Burrows, Henri Cartier-Bresson, Bruce Davidson, Danny Lyon, and Charles Moore, among other significant practitioners in the 20th century who explored varied approaches to capturing everyday moments, from the mundane to the monumental.
https://www.menil.org/exhibition/photography-from-the-menil-collection-curated-by-wendy-watriss 

	The Gift of Drawing: Cy Twombly
	MAR 27 2026 - AUG 9 2026
	Menil Drawing Institute
	This presentation features twenty-seven works from a gift to the museum by the Cy Twombly Foundation. The works highlighted in the exhibition cover thirty years of the artist’s activity, from the 1950s to the 1980s and feature a broad range of materials, from graphite to oil paint; techniques such as drawing and collage; and themes that are fundamental to his entire practice, such as classical antiquity, eroticism, and nature.
	https://www.menil.org/exhibition/the-gift-of-drawing-cy-twombly 
	
	Wall Drawing Series: Gladys Nilsson
	SEP 5 2025 - AUG 9 2026
	Menil Drawing Institute 
	Gladys Nilsson’s site-specific work titled Drawing presents fantastical, hybrid beings all surrounding one monumental figure engaged in the act of drawing. A complex, garland-like arrangement of black-and-white characters soars overhead, entangled with one another, while the bystanders below, set apart by gentle color-toning, observe the scene.  
The bustling composition is marked by deft and fluid lines using a candy-colored palette of crayon, graphite, and acrylic paint and marker pens. Nilsson’s whimsical creation embodies her distinctive sense of humor and levity while taking viewers on a journey through the peculiar beauty of the human experience. 
	https://www.menil.org/exhibition/wall-drawing-series-gladys-nilsson 

	Foyer Installation: Mel Bochner, Chryssa, and Dorothy Hood
	APR 1 2026 - OCT 25 2026
	Main Building
	Explore a selection of works from the museum's permanent collection by artists Mel Bochner, Chryssa, and Dorothy Hood in the foyer.
https://www.menil.org/exhibition/foyer-installation-mel-bochner-chryssa-and-dorothy-hood 
	
	Modern and Contemporary
	JUN 14 2025 - SEP 6 2026
	Main Building 
	The Menil Collection’s modern and contemporary holdings encompass a vast array of movements, materials, and styles, spanning the late 19th century to the present. Currently on display are more than forty paintings, sculptures, drawings, and photographs from the collection, alongside important loans. Recent acquisitions on view include works by Dawoud Bey, Sam Gilliam, Christina Quarles, Winfred Rembert, and Deborah Roberts.
The installation includes two commissions by John and Dominique de Menil, both created for exhibitions at Rice University in the 1970s. Niki de Saint Phalle’s painted polyester sculptures of a cat and camel, 1966-67, are presented for the first time after recent conservation. Created for the 1971 exhibition For Children, the whimsical creatures embody the French American artist’s defiantly joyous and colorful approach to sculpture.
	https://www.menil.org/exhibition/modern-and-contemporary 

	Surrealism
	Main Building
	The Menil Collection is home to one of the largest and most significant collections of Surrealism in the United States. A suite of permanent collection galleries is dedicated to this artistic movement, which began in France in the mid-1920s. The installation includes thematic rooms that highlight the Surrealists’ interest in bodily fragmentation and the double. Others explore Surrealism’s influence on postwar art movements, including Art Informel and Pop assemblage. Single-artist galleries dedicated to Max Ernst, René Magritte, and Joan Miró complete the display.
	https://www.menil.org/exhibition/surrealism 

	Africa
	Main Building
	The Menil Collection’s African galleries feature examples of masks, figural statues, musical instruments, textiles, architectural elements, and other forms of visual culture primarily from West and Central Africa. An introductory gallery explores the shared visual histories between Africa and Europe after the 15th century. European imagery of the continent and its people, and representations of Europeans by African artists, point to a long, uneven history of encounters. The paintings, sculptures, and works on paper in this section provoke conversations about the corrosive histories of slavery, colonialism, and racism and foster a deeper appreciation for artworks from different African peoples seen in adjoining galleries.  
The museum’s holdings from Africa include more than 900 works dating from the 3rd millennium BCE to the 20th century that represent cultural histories and visual traditions of roughly half of the continent’s 54 countries.  
	https://www.menil.org/exhibition/africa 

	4th-18th Century Europe 
	Main Building
Reflecting the varied and eclectic intellectual inclinations of John and Dominique de Menil is a wide-ranging collection of art from the 4th to 18th centuries, originating in Europe and the parts of North Africa and Western Asia controlled by the Roman and later Byzantine Empires. These holdings include 1,375 works from the Medieval and Byzantine era (4th–mid 15th century) and more than 7,000 objects from the Early Modern era (late 15th–late 18th century), during which many of the characteristics of the modern world emerged, among them scientific inquiry, global exploration and colonization, humanism, and nation-states. Rooms dedicated to the broader Medieval and Early Modern eras are presented adjacent to the icon gallery. On display are objects that illustrate the daily life of medieval Byzantium, featuring Byzantine church furnishings and a smaller collection of Western European works like reliquaries, architectural fragments, and religious statuary. Medieval art and artifacts are situated alongside noteworthy paintings, prints, sculpture, and decorative arts from the 15th to 18th century. Selections include significant paintings by or attributed to Christopher Amberger, François Clouet, Jean-Baptiste Greuze, Christian Luycks, François de Nomé, and Anthony van Dyck.   
	https://www.menil.org/exhibition/4th-18th-century-europe 

	Pacific Islands 
	Main Building
	The Menil Collection stewards a significant collection of more than 300 works from the Pacific Islands. Masks, figural sculptures, architectural elements, and musical instruments, primarily from the regions of Melanesia and Polynesia, are regularly on view in a dedicated gallery and in A Surrealist Wunderkammer. 
	https://www.menil.org/exhibition/pacific-islands 

	A Surrealist Wunderkammer
	Main Building
	A Surrealist Wunderkammer is an ongoing single-gallery exhibition devoted to the observations of human nature from the perspectives of Surrealism, an international art and literary movement started by André Breton, Paul Éluard, and others in France in the 1920s. Featuring more than 200 works, the installation draws from the museum’s collection as well as long-term loans from the de Menil family and the Rock Foundation. The exhibition includes masks, sculptures, musical instruments, photographic and moving-image technologies, paintings, prints, tourist curios, and other objects that informed the imagination, political aesthetic, and varied artistic practices of Surrealism.
https://www.menil.org/exhibition/a-surrealist-wunderkammer-2 
	
Outdoor Sculpture
	Green Spaces
Throughout the Menil Collection’s campus, visitors can discover works by artists Michael Heizer, Ellsworth Kelly, Jim Love, Max Neuhaus, and Mark di Suvero. 
	https://www.menil.org/exhibition/outdoor-sculpture 

	Indigenous Americas
	Main Building
Visual culture from the Indigenous peoples of the Americas is on view in an open gallery space along the east corridor of the main building. Featuring a rotating selection from the more than 800 works in the museum’s holdings, the principal display includes historically important examples from Mesoamerica, the Pacific Northwest, and the Arctic. Works from the Indigenous Americas are also on view in A Surrealist Wunderkammer.	
	https://www.menil.org/exhibition/indigenous-americas 

	Ancient Mediterranean 
	Main Building 
	The Ancient Mediterranean holdings at the Menil Collection number more than 600 objects and span 20,000 years of artistic achievement, from the Upper Paleolithic era (ca. 10,000 BCE or earlier) to the end of the Roman Empire (4th century CE). The rotating displays highlight ancient visual cultures from the islands of the Mediterranean Sea and surrounding regions of Europe, North Africa, and western Asia.
	https://www.menil.org/exhibition/ancient-mediterranean 

	From the Sea
	AUG 20 2025 - MAY 3 2026
	Main Building 
	In the main building's hallway galleries, explore an installation of artworks related to the sea.
	https://www.menil.org/exhibition/from-the-sea 


                                                              
  - Dallas: 
Dallas Museum of Art 
General museum link: https://dma.org/visit?utm_source=goog&utm_medium=sem&utm_campaign=visit&gad_source=1&gad_campaignid=12353596308&gbraid=0AAAAADq7kVNJrDDvH6rxXThS_J_szoAoP&gclid=CjwKCAjwwJzPBhBREiwAJfHRnVElPioCPceLuXwBrbzz5Riq0DSXCJDDqSyaA7leQx4O_GY4NlKaWhoCBPkQAvD_BwE 
Ticket link: https://www.etix.com/ticket/e/1014117/museum-admission-dallas-dallas-museum-of-art 
Admissions info: Free General Admission (book entry ticket in advance on website)
FREE GENERAL ADMISSION  
Because we believe that art is a gift meant for all, general admission to the DMA is FREE; however, to ensure an optimal guest experience, we require visitors to have a ticket for entry. 


Free general admission includes viewing the Museum’s collection galleries and select exhibitions. Please note that some special exhibitions require a separate ticket that must be purchased after your free general admission ticket has been reserved.
 
School groups with 10 or more students are required to make a reservation and submit payment at least two weeks in advance; groups without a reservation may be turned away. All school, homeschool, and community class groups must book through the School Group Visit program and may not use general admission tickets to visit.


Museum Hours:


Open Wednesday-Sunday, 11:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m.


SPECIAL EXHIBITIONS 
Select the date you plan to visit the Museum.
Add the number of General Admission tickets needed for entry.
Select your Exhibit tickets from the pop up box.
Tickets are typically released on the third Monday of every month for the upcoming month.
DMA FREE First Sundays: Access for All 
Admission to special exhibitions are FREE on the first Sunday of each month.
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://dma.org/art/exhibitions 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL    

	The Keir Collection of Islamic Art Gallery 
	APR 18 2017 - DEC 31 2028
	Focus Gallery	
	Assembled over the course of five decades by the noted art collector Edmund de Unger (1918–2011), the Keir Collection is recognized by scholars as one of the world’s most geographically and historically comprehensive. Consisting of nearly 2,000 works, it spans from the Western Mediterranean to South Asia and across more than 13 centuries. It includes luxurious carpets and textiles; notable metalwork; rare works in rock crystal; lavish Qur’ans and illustrated manuscripts; and exceptional ceramics. The collection is considered an indispensable resource for scholarship in the field of Islamic art.  
	https://dma.org/art/exhibitions/keir-collection-islamic-art-gallery 

	Not Visible to the Naked Eye: Inside a Senufo Helmet Mask
	NOV 23 2019 - DEC 27 2026
	Conservation Gallery
	The DMA’s Conservation and Arts of Africa departments, in an exciting and cutting-edge collaboration with UT Southwestern Medical Center, will present CT scans of a Senufo helmet mask from the Museum’s African art collection. This kind of mask is worn like a helmet by a medium at initiations, funerals, harvest celebrations and secret events conducted by the powerful male-only Komo society, which has traditionally maintained social and spiritual harmony in Senufo villages in Côte d’Ivoire, Mali, and Burkina Faso. Visible attachments on the mask include a female figure, cowrie shells, and imported glassware. The CT-scans reveal unexpected materials beneath the surface and objects contained in the attached animal horns that empower the mask.
	https://dma.org/art/exhibitions/not-visible-naked-eye-inside-senufo-helmet-mask 

	Looking Forward: A New DMA
	NOV 9 2023 - DEC 31 2029
	Focus Gallery II
	Nieto Sobejano Arquitectos described their competition-winning proposal—which will be developed by the Museum in consultation with its stakeholders and communities—“as a reflection of the original building, transforming the relationship between art, landscape, and community into a balance of memory and innovation.” 
	https://lookingforward.dma.org/p/1 

	Postwar and Contemporary Art Galleries
	JUN 14 2025 - JUN 15 2030 
	Barrel Vault 
	You asked, and we listened—join us to experience fan favorites, from Pollock to Basquiat, as we bring them out of storage and into the spotlight, all included in your FREE general admission. Starting this spring, the Dallas Museum of Art is thrilled to unveil a dynamic new installation of cutting-edge 20th- and 21st-century art from the DMA’s collection. Located in the iconic Barrel Vault and Quadrant Galleries on the Museum’s first level, the installation will feature some of our most iconic and beloved works, spanning from around 1945 to today. Expect rotating pieces to be showcased quarterly, offering fresh perspectives from the esteemed DMA Contemporary team.
	https://dma.org/art/exhibitions/postwar-and-contemporary-art-galleries 

	Constellations: Contemporary Jewelry at the Dallas Museum of Art
	NOV 9 2025 - MAY 3 2026 
	Chilton Gallery
	Constellations: Contemporary Jewelry at the Dallas Museum of Art showcases more than 350 wearable works of art, many of which have never been on view before. The exhibition surveys nearly a century of creativity and celebrates the ingenuity of jewelry artists from across the globe. It provides a fresh perspective on contemporary jewelry, illuminating the delightful connections that unite established masters and burgeoning talents and transcend chronological boundaries and geographical borders. Featuring golden crowns formed to look like cardboard, enchanting necklaces made from plastic bags, and whimsical brooches resembling toast, Constellations does not simply highlight the treasures of a world-class collection, but captures the depth, breadth, and diversity of contemporary jewelry design. 
https://dma.org/art/exhibitions/constellations-contemporary-jewelry-dallas-museum-art 

	Roy Lichtenstein in the Studio 
	JAN 15 2026 - JUL 5 2026 
	Stoffel Quadrant Gallery
	Celebrating a remarkable joint gift from the Roy Lichtenstein Foundation to the Dallas Museum of Art and the Nasher Sculpture Center, Roy Lichtenstein in the Studio offers a glimpse into the preeminent Pop artist’s meticulous process. Composed of works from the joint gift, the DMA's collection, and a local collection, this showcase reveals the gestures behind Lichtenstein’s sleek, high-gloss style through an assortment of 17 works on paper, including preparatory studies he used to devise larger works, projects in collaboration with print workshops, and the artist’s Brushstroke works and iterations.
	https://dma.org/art/exhibitions/roy-lichtenstein-studio 
	
	Rhythm of the City
	FEB 14 2026 - JUL 19 2026
	Concourse
	Rhythm of the City transforms the DMA Concourse into an exploration of the beats and rhythms of Dallas, its people and neighborhoods, and the spaces between. The 150-foot-long mural is divided into six regional sections that reflect the city’s diverse cultural tempos, each vignette pulsing with layered texture, abstract form, and sound, transforming the wall into a visual composition of collective identity. Dallas-based artists Bobby Miller and Ebony Lewis use rhythm as a lens to translate the pace, energy, and nuance of community life. Through color, shape, and sonic cues, the mural invites viewers to not only see the city, but feel its heartbeat. The journey through the Museum becomes a meditation on place and presence, where stillness and motion coexist, and where the city’s story unfolds not only in sights and sounds, but in the silences that linger between them.
	https://dma.org/art/exhibitions/rhythm-city 

	Paper Technologies: Italian Prints and Drawings
	FEB 25 2026 - SEP 20 2026
	Level 2
	Paper Technologies: Italian Prints and Drawings delves into the complex world of early modern Italian prints and drawings and their afterlife. The selection of works in this exhibition, made between 1500 and 1750, reflect the diversity of works on paper across artistic centers from Venice to Rome. Featuring The Banquet of the Rich Man, a rare drawing by Neapolitan artist Luca Giordano, this exhibition presents treasures from the DMA’s permanent collection alongside never-before-seen works from private collections.
	https://dma.org/art/exhibitions/paper-technologies-italian-prints-and-drawings 

	Samurai to the Imperial Court: Japanese Metalwork
	MAR 29 2026 - SEP 6 2026 
	Chilton Gallery
	Marvel at the artistry and beauty of Japan’s metalworking tradition across five centuries in Samurai to the Imperial Court: Japanese Metalwork. Through more than 90 works of art drawn from the DMA’s significant holdings and other leading collections, including The Ann & Gabriel Barbier-Mueller Museum: The Samurai Collection, Dallas, Samurai to the Imperial Court celebrates the technical mastery, innovative spirit, and aesthetic brilliance of Japanese metal artists. From samurai arms and armor to imperial court commissions, from luminous enameled vessels to sculptures of fantastical animals and figures, this exhibition showcases a dazzling array of objects shaped by centuries of imagination and craftsmanship. 
	https://dma.org/art/exhibitions/samurai-imperial-court-japanese-metalwork 

	Paradise on Earth: Florals in Indian Textiles
	APR 8 2026 - NOV 15 2026 
	Level 3
	Paradise on Earth: Florals in Indian Textiles invites visitors into a world where art, nature, and craftsmanship intertwine. For thousands of years, plants and flowers have inspired Indian textile and garment designs. This exhibition explores the enduring presence of floral and plant motifs in Indian textiles, showcasing a range of different textile materials, decorative techniques, and artistic influences across time and across the subcontinent through 13 works of art from the Mughal empire (1526–1827) to today. Paradise on Earth showcases densely embroidered coats and shawls, Mughal period carpets and paintings, and high-fashion garments by Oscar de la Renta and Alice + Olivia. Together, these works demonstrate how India’s 6,000-year textile tradition continues to inspire across time and cultures.  
	https://dma.org/art/exhibitions/paradise-earth-florals-indian-textiles 






                                                                             
  - Kansas City:			
Nelson-Atkins 
General museum link: https://nelson-atkins.org/?utm_source=Google&utm_medium=PPC&utm_campaign=Brand_Grant&gad_source=1&gad_campaignid=1340470943&gbraid=0AAAAADBoii194NHnxVALYyTAg-rtfg4qR&gclid=CjwKCAjwwJzPBhBREiwAJfHRncW1cyCz7XOe8wjGL0RQtv7luagN9GdCf4TkNWxAWX_W9_2ECXobuBoCZt8QAvD_BwE 
Ticket link: https://cart.nelson-atkins.org/admission?utm_source=Google&utm_medium=PPC&utm_campaign=Brand_Grant&_gl=1*1cvb6du*_up*MQ..*_gs*MQ..&gclid=CjwKCAjwwJzPBhBREiwAJfHRncW1cyCz7XOe8wjGL0RQtv7luagN9GdCf4TkNWxAWX_W9_2ECXobuBoCZt8QAvD_BwE&gbraid=0AAAAADBoii194NHnxVALYyTAg-rtfg4qR 
Admissions info: Free General Admission (book entry ticket in advance on the website or on-site)
Guests are required to check in before they can enter museum galleries or Rozzelle Court Restaurant – either in person or online in advance of their visit. Staffed and self-service check-in kiosks are located at museum entrances. If you’ve checked-in online, you’ll need to provide the QR code you were emailed when you registered for your visit.
Once you’ve checked in at the museum, you’ll receive a wristband and access to all general admission galleries.
If you are a museum member, you do not need to check in. Simply scan your membership card upon admission.
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://nelson-atkins.org/art/exhibitions/?utm_source=Google&utm_medium=PPC&utm_campaign=Brand_Grant&_gl=1*1cvb6du*_up*MQ..*_gs*MQ..&gclid=CjwKCAjwwJzPBhBREiwAJfHRncW1cyCz7XOe8wjGL0RQtv7luagN9GdCf4TkNWxAWX_W9_2ECXobuBoCZt8QAvD_BwE&gbraid=0AAAAADBoii194NHnxVALYyTAg-rtfg4qR 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL    

	Timeless Mucha 
	APR 18 2026 - AUG 30 2026
	Gallery L13-L15
The special exhibition Timeless Mucha celebrates the visionary graphic work of Czech artist Alphonse Mucha (1860–1939), whose elegant figures and whiplash lines came to define the Art Nouveau movement and transformed visual culture around the world.
Featuring more than 100 works from the Mucha Trust Collection, this exhibition traces Mucha’s rise from a struggling artist in Paris to an international sensation – and explores the enduring influence of his imagery across illustration, design, and pop culture.	https://nelson-atkins.org/art/exhibitions/timeless-mucha/?utm_source=Google&utm_medium=PPC&utm_campaign=Brand_Grant&_gl=1*1r3lljd*_up*MQ..&gclid=CjwKCAjwwJzPBhBREiwAJfHRncW1cyCz7XOe8wjGL0RQtv7luagN9GdCf4TkNWxAWX_W9_2ECXobuBoCZt8QAvD_BwE&gbraid=0AAAAADBoii194NHnxVALYyTAg-rtfg4qR 

	Mucha’s Muses: Sarah Bernhardt and the Spirit of Art Nouveau
	JAN 31 2026 - JAN 17 2027
	Gallery 128
	At the turn of the 20th century, few creative partnerships were as dazzling—or as influential—as that between Czech artist Alphonse Mucha (1860–1939) and legendary French actress Sarah Bernhardt (1844–1923). Together, they helped define the look and spirit of Art Nouveau, a movement that swept across Europe with its graceful lines, flowing forms, and celebration of beauty rooted in nature.
Mucha’s Muses: Sarah Bernhardt and the Spirit of Art Nouveau highlights how Bernhardt, one of the most famous performers of her time, became Mucha’s muse, collaborator, and friend. His striking posters for her plays launched his international career and redefined the visual language of celebrity. Featuring women with cascading hair, haloed by chrysanthemums, stars, and vines, these works elevated advertisement into high art.
Bernhardt’s story also has a Kansas City connection. She performed here during her international tours, and a special interactive in the exhibition explores her visit and its local impact.
Through a small selection of Mucha’s works and other art nouveau objects from the Nelson-Atkins collection, this focus exhibition invites reflection on the idealization of women, the fusion of art and theater, and how visual culture shaped modern identities at the dawn of a new century.
https://nelson-atkins.org/art/exhibitions/muchas-muses-sarah-bernhardt-and-the-spirit-of-art-nouveau/?utm_source=Google&utm_medium=PPC&utm_campaign=Brand_Grant&_gl=1*z2owz*_up*MQ..&gclid=CjwKCAjwwJzPBhBREiwAJfHRncW1cyCz7XOe8wjGL0RQtv7luagN9GdCf4TkNWxAWX_W9_2ECXobuBoCZt8QAvD_BwE&gbraid=0AAAAADBoii194NHnxVALYyTAg-rtfg4qR 

	Farhad Ostovani: Goldberg Variations 
	MAR 7 2026 - FEB 28 2027 
	Gallery 203
	Farhad Ostovani explores this question in his Goldberg Variations.  Born in Iran in 1950, Ostovani is a Paris-based artist known for his conceptual studies of natural subjects. In this series, Ostovani translates the experience of hearing Johann Sebastian Bach’s composition for keyboard, the Goldberg Variations, into visual works of art.  Inspired by nature and informed by his own personal history, Ostovani uses plant imagery–the stems and leaves of roses—as visual symbols to represent music. Rendered in ink and chalk, by print or brush, these vegetal forms rise and fall across the gallery walls.  Farhad Ostovani: Goldberg Variations features key works from this series and 20 ink on paper studies that reveal the artist’s process. While in the gallery, visitors can listen to the same recording of Tatiana Nikolayeva (1924–1993) playing the Goldberg Variations that inspired Ostovani and look for connections across art forms.
https://nelson-atkins.org/art/exhibitions/farhad-ostovani-goldberg-variations/?utm_source=Google&utm_medium=PPC&utm_campaign=Brand_Grant&_gl=1*84mscw*_up*MQ..&gclid=CjwKCAjwwJzPBhBREiwAJfHRncW1cyCz7XOe8wjGL0RQtv7luagN9GdCf4TkNWxAWX_W9_2ECXobuBoCZt8QAvD_BwE&gbraid=0AAAAADBoii194NHnxVALYyTAg-rtfg4qR 

	Legendary Landscapes: Sublime Visions from China’s Song Dynasty
	MAR 21 2026 - SEP 27 2026
	Gallery 222
	Deep ties between the natural world and spiritual practice have nourished the significant role of shanshui (mountain and water, “landscape”) in Chinese art for thousands of years. This role reached a new height of artistic importance during the Song dynasty (960–1279 C.E.), when imperial collectors encouraged the creation of innovative landscape paintings. This exhibition brings legendary landscapes into focus, presenting an exceptional opportunity to view world treasures in the museum’s collection.
These paintings embody the profound connections between humans, the natural world, and the greater cosmos. Through the eyes of people who traverse the landscapes, we see each painting as a microcosm of the universe presented through multiple visual perspectives. In turn, the order and completeness of Song dynasty landscapes align with the ideals of an enlightened and benevolent empire.
The museum’s rich collection extends from the Northern Song period (960–1127) to the Southern Song (1127–1279), when political conflict forced the court to relocate from the chilly north to the warmer south. The paintings’ distinctive terrains and shifting moods reflect the change in the environment. Illustrating personal journeys in nature, they encourage self-reflection and contemplation.
https://nelson-atkins.org/art/exhibitions/legendary-landscapes-sublime-visions-from-chinas-song-dynasty/?utm_source=Google&utm_medium=PPC&utm_campaign=Brand_Grant&_gl=1*93rehm*_up*MQ..&gclid=CjwKCAjwwJzPBhBREiwAJfHRncW1cyCz7XOe8wjGL0RQtv7luagN9GdCf4TkNWxAWX_W9_2ECXobuBoCZt8QAvD_BwE&gbraid=0AAAAADBoii194NHnxVALYyTAg-rtfg4qR 
	
	Glorious Glass: Selections from the Collections
	NOV 2 2024 - APR 11 2027
	Gallery 110
	We use things made of glass every day, from our smartphone screens to the containers that hold our beverages, to the windows of our cars, homes, and offices. First invented in the Middle East nearly 4,000 years ago, glass soon captivated Ancient Mediterranean and European civilizations.
This installation follows centuries of glass making across Europe, drawn from the Museum’s holdings. Many of the works have not been on view in decades, including rare examples of ancient glass and selections of dazzling English drinking glasses from the Wallenstein Collection, one of the Museum’s largest, yet little-known, collections of decorative arts. It also celebrates new acquisitions of European glass and brings alive several of the stories of the previous owners of our works who have fallen under glass’s sparkling spell.
https://nelson-atkins.org/art/exhibitions/glorious-glass-selections-collections/?utm_source=Google&utm_medium=PPC&utm_campaign=Brand_Grant&_gl=1*1lgdlic*_up*MQ..&gclid=CjwKCAjwwJzPBhBREiwAJfHRncW1cyCz7XOe8wjGL0RQtv7luagN9GdCf4TkNWxAWX_W9_2ECXobuBoCZt8QAvD_BwE&gbraid=0AAAAADBoii194NHnxVALYyTAg-rtfg4qR 

	Water Embodied: Flow and Meaning of Water in Japanese Art
	JAN 10 2026 - APR 26 2026 
	Gallery 205
Water—an essential element of life on Earth—has long played a vital role in shaping human civilization. In Japan, a country made up of islands, water is more than a natural resource. It is a constant presence that surrounds, connects, and sustains life, while shaping Japan’s culture, beliefs, and artistic creations.
This exhibition traces the diverse ways water has been represented, revered, and reimagined in Japanese art over the past 500 years. Through nearly 50 objects, it highlights water’s presence in daily life, its appearance in legends and deities, and its layered symbolic meanings. The exhibition also explores water’s dual nature—as both boundary and bridge—and how it facilitated the movement of people, goods, and ideas.
Please note that some objects in this exhibition will rotate due to their sensitivity to light.
https://nelson-atkins.org/art/exhibitions/water-embodied-flow-and-meaning-of-water-in-japanese-art/?utm_source=Google&utm_medium=PPC&utm_campaign=Brand_Grant&_gl=1*1kkquqh*_up*MQ..&gclid=CjwKCAjwwJzPBhBREiwAJfHRncW1cyCz7XOe8wjGL0RQtv7luagN9GdCf4TkNWxAWX_W9_2ECXobuBoCZt8QAvD_BwE&gbraid=0AAAAADBoii194NHnxVALYyTAg-rtfg4qR 

	The Lawrence Lithography Workshop: MORE Highlights from the Collection 
	JAN 24 2026 - JUL 26 2026
	Gallery 214
	Comprising selections from the collection of The Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art, this exhibition continues the museum’s celebration of creativity, talent, and collaborative spirit synonymous with The Lawrence Lithography Workshop (TLLW).
Master Printer Michael Sims (born 1944) established TLLW in Lawrence, Kansas, in 1979 before moving it to Sunland Park, New Mexico, in 1997. Since 2001, the shop has operated out of Kansas City, Missouri, drawing artists as diverse as the subject matter and techniques represented in their prints. Artists have come from around the corner and across the country. Some are well-versed in printmaking, while others are new to lithography and interested in exploring its possibilities. Many have returned again and again—a testament to the shop’s reputation and Sims’s expert guidance.
https://nelson-atkins.org/art/exhibitions/the-lawrence-lithography-workshop-more-highlights-from-the-collection/?utm_source=Google&utm_medium=PPC&utm_campaign=Brand_Grant&_gl=1*bfuzc0*_up*MQ..&gclid=CjwKCAjwwJzPBhBREiwAJfHRncW1cyCz7XOe8wjGL0RQtv7luagN9GdCf4TkNWxAWX_W9_2ECXobuBoCZt8QAvD_BwE&gbraid=0AAAAADBoii194NHnxVALYyTAg-rtfg4qR 

	From Modesty to Magnificence: The Golden Age of Miniature Painting in England, 1700-1800
	APR 11 2026 - APR 4 2027 
	Gallery 124 
	The eighteenth-century marked a transformative period for portrait miniatures in England, as artists shifted from painting on vellum to ivory—a medium that enabled greater luminosity and refinement but required new technical skill. Early in the century, Continental artists working for the Hanoverian court maintained older traditions, but by the 1740s native English painters had mastered ivory and began to define the field.
This period saw the rise of what has been called the “Modest School,” characterized by small-scale, intimate portraits that appealed to a growing middle class. Miniatures became cherished objects—portable markers of status and tokens of affection exchanged among family and loved ones.
By the later decades of the century, artists increasingly looked to the influence of artist, Sir Joshua Reynolds (English, 1723-1792), and the Royal Academy, introducing greater ambition and stylistic variety. The fashionable elite turned to Richard Cosway, whose elegant, idealized portraits set new standards of refinement.
By 1800, miniatures had grown in scale and sophistication, balancing intimacy with the grandeur of contemporary oil painting.
https://nelson-atkins.org/art/exhibitions/from-modesty-to-magnificence-the-golden-age-of-miniature-painting-in-england-1700-1800/?utm_source=Google&utm_medium=PPC&utm_campaign=Brand_Grant&_gl=1*cpjkv1*_up*MQ..&gclid=CjwKCAjwwJzPBhBREiwAJfHRncW1cyCz7XOe8wjGL0RQtv7luagN9GdCf4TkNWxAWX_W9_2ECXobuBoCZt8QAvD_BwE&gbraid=0AAAAADBoii194NHnxVALYyTAg-rtfg4qR 


                                                                               
  - Minneapolis: 
Mia
General museum link: https://new.artsmia.org/ 
Ticket link: https://tickets.artsmia.org/events 
Admissions info: Free General Admission (for special exhibitions or events reserve ticket in advance on the website: most of them are free, some have a fee)
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://new.artsmia.org/exhibitions 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL

	Kenji Nakahashi: A Confident Life
	APR 4 2026 - DEC 27 2026 
	Galleries 315 and 316
	Contemplative, humorous, inventive, and surreal. These are just a few of many apt descriptions of the artworks of the Japanese artist Kenji Nakahashi. His active imagination, curiosity for his immediate environment, and embrace of the mundane provided endless inspiration and subjects for his art, inviting questions and reflections about life and everyday objects.
Born and educated in Japan, Nakahashi moved to New York City in 1973 at the age of 26, finding in the bustling metropolis the creative stimuli that would sustain his practice for the rest of his life. Best known for his concept-driven photography, Nakahashi actively experimented with a diverse range of mediums, including drawing, painting, collage, and printmaking. Relying on absurdity, visual and textual puns, and unusual juxtapositions, Nakahashi’s enigmatic images encourage viewers to contemplate both the strange and captivating aspects of everyday life.
Celebrating a recent anonymous gift of Nakahashi’s work to Mia’s collection, this exhibition showcases more than 60 photographs, prints, drawings, watercolors, collages, and one painting, representing the artist’s career from the 1970s through the early 1990s.
	https://new.artsmia.org/exhibition/kenji-nakahashi-confident-life 

	
Nik Nerburn: The Milkman 
	MAR 21 2026 - JUN 21 2026 
	U.S. Bank Gallery
	Through bewitching stop motion animation and dense, campy soundscapes, “The Milkman” shows a family keeping secrets from each other in strange and startling ways. Drawing from both enduring American mythologies and personal family lore, Nerburn uses the disarming whimsy of puppetry and dollhouses to reveal a domestic life coming undone.
Nerburn’s cross-disciplinary projects reflect his passion for people’s histories and places that are “off the map.” He’s a 2024–2025 Minneapolis College of Art and Design–Jerome Foundation Fellow and has received support from the Minnesota State Arts Board, ArtPlace America, and Springboard for the Arts.
	https://new.artsmia.org/exhibition/nik-nerburn-milkman 

	
Belonging Begins Here: Our Stories, Our County, and Our Pride
	MAR 14 2026 - APR 26 2026 
	Katherine Kierland Herberger Gallery, Community Commons 
	The 2025 theme “Belonging Begins Here: Our Stories, Our County, and Our Pride” invites students across Hennepin County to explore the meaning of belonging through personal and local lenses. This year’s program encourages participants to reflect on their identities, communities, and shared spaces that foster inclusion and connection.
Students highlight stories, landmarks, and cultural touch points within their districts that bring people together or represent sources of pride. Through creative expression and storytelling, the program aims to celebrate the rich diversity and unity within Hennepin County, promoting a deeper understanding of what it means to belong. By focusing on local narratives, the initiative empowers young voices to shape a more inclusive and connected community rooted in shared experience and mutual respect.
	https://new.artsmia.org/exhibition/belonging-begins-here 

	
Modern Art and Politics in Germany 1910-1945: Masterworks from the Neue Nationalgalerie, Berlin
	MAR 7 2026 - JUL 19 2026
	Target Galleries
	In the first half of the 20th century, Germany experienced the last years of the German Empire, World War I and the revolution that followed, the liberal Weimar Republic, the rise of Adolf Hitler and Nazism, World War II, and the Holocaust. Modern art played an important role in the discourse of the period, and politics influenced the arts.
This exhibition features more than 70 paintings and sculptures from the collections of the Neue Nationalgalerie (New National Gallery), the distinguished modern art museum of the Berlin State Museums. It traces the German experience in the visual arts over four decades.
Beginning with the Expressionist reaction and opposition to the conservative artistic regime of Kaiser Wilhelm II, the exhibition moves on to the New Objectivity movement, the modern style of the 1920s. Between the wars, German artists participated in international experiments with abstraction. Painters and sculptors critiqued social currents, but most were silenced under the Nazis. This exhibition concludes with an epilogue that examines the ambiguous aftermath of World War II.
	https://new.artsmia.org/exhibition/modern-art-politics-germany-1910-1945 

	
Year of the Horse: Hoofbeats through Time
	FEB 18 2026 - AUG 9 2026
	Bell Family Decorative Arts Court (333)
	“Year of the Horse: Hoofbeats through Time” celebrates the enduring power, beauty, and symbolism of horses in Chinese art and culture. Across millennia, the horse has galloped through China’s imagination—as chariot puller, zodiac sign, loyal companion, and poetic metaphor.
This exhibition explores the horse as both a real creature and a cultural emblem—embodying strength, status, virtue, and aspiration. From ritual bronzes to scholar’s miniatures, imperial scrolls to popular expressions, the horse reveals a rich interplay of mythology, mobility, and meaning. As we welcome a new Year of the Horse, these timeless images invite reflection on what it means to move, strive, and endure.
	https://new.artsmia.org/exhibition/year-of-the-horse 

	
An Indigenous Art: Huipiles from Mia’s Collection
	FEB 14 2026 - AUG 2 2026
	Robert and Marlyss White Gallery (281)
	Derived from a Nahuatl word, a huipil is a traditional blouse worn by women throughout Mesoamerica, particularly among the Maya, since before the 16th century when the Spanish arrived in the region. The garment remains especially prevalent in Guatemala’s highland regions, where a majority of Maya descendants reside today.
Huipiles are traditionally handwoven on a backstrap loom in two or three rectangular panels, later sewn together. Decoration, motifs, and color choices serve as a visual language that uniquely identifies the wearer’s village and social standing.
The selection presented in this exhibition comes from a significant donation of textiles made to the museum by Richard Simmons and his wife. Their contribution has greatly enhanced representation of Latin American culture in the museum’s collection.
	https://new.artsmia.org/exhibition/indigenous-art-huipiles 

	
Built to Last: The Shogren-Meyer Collection of American Art
	JAN 17 2026 - JUN 14 2026 
	Cargill Gallery (103)
	This exhibition brings together paintings and photographs from the collection of Dan Shogren and Susan Meyer that explore the rich and complex meanings of industrial art during the first half of the 20th century. Spanning the late 1920s to the early 1940s, these works illuminate the importance of artistic creativity during a period shaped by economic hardship, social unrest, and the dominance of industrial manufacturing. Paintings by Harry Gottlieb, Edmund Lewandowski, Ben Shahn, and others appear alongside photographs by prominent figures such as Margaret Bourke-White, Walker Evans, and Dorothea Lange, offering a unique cross-section of artistic life during a tumultuous era.
	https://new.artsmia.org/exhibition/shogren-meyer-collection-american-art 

	
Containing Multitudes 
	DEC 20 2025 - AUG 2 2026 
	Harrison Photography Gallery (364)
	For 250 years, the United States has defined itself in terms of plurality. Its Latin motto, e pluribus unum (out of many, one), notes the interdependence of the multiple and the singular in our national conception.
This exhibition explores the diversity of American experience that photographs can hold, and the manner in which photographers have sought to “contain multitudes,” in the words of the 19th-century writer Walt Whitman, by maintaining an expansive ecosystem of images celebrating the contradictions of American life, culture, and history.
	https://new.artsmia.org/exhibition/containing-multitudes 



Walker Art Center    
General museum link: https://www.walkerart.org/ 
Ticket link: https://secure.walkerart.org/events?_gl=1*jcy86q*_gcl_aw*R0NMLjE3NzY3OTczNTcuQ2p3S0NBand3SnpQQmhCUkVpd0FKZkhSblZnMDI3ejEzZ3BfV1lPY0Z4Ump2MFN4ZGFHbXdnWEhCWUVHalBNUXdnM09MMmgwZzY4d3ZSb0NHQUVRQXZEX0J3RQ..*_gcl_au*MjAyODc1NzAxMC4xNzc2Nzk3MzU2 
Admissions info: 

Adults
$18
Seniors (65+)
$16
Students (with ID)
$12
Active military and their families
$9*
EBT cardholders
FREE
Children (18 and under)
FREE
Citizens and members of Tribal Nations
FREE
Walker members
FREE


*The Walker is a Blue Star Museum. Admission is free for active-duty military and their families between Armed Forces Day in May and Labor Day in September.
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://www.walkerart.org/art-artists/#exhibitions 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL  

	Sculpture Court 
	OCT 18 2025 - AUG 30 2026 
	Gallery D/Perlman
	Stretching back to the Renaissance, sculpture courts stood as symbols of power and prestige. Their contents conveyed religious and mythological narratives, demonstrated political authority, and consolidated cultural ideals about beauty and style.
In Sculpture Court, the Walker presents its own take on the centuries-old tradition. Many of the featured pieces are on display for the first time since entering the museum’s collection; all of them reimagine one of the most enduring subjects in art history. From Joan Miró’s surrealist Femme debout (Standing Woman) (1969) to Nobuaki Kojima’s salaryman figures and Mona Hatoum’s hairball necklaces, this exhibition highlights an inventive range of materials, styles, and approaches to the human form. At turns humorous and contemplative, strange and fantastical, these works reflect our contemporary conceptions of self.
	https://www.walkerart.org/whats-on/sculpture-court/ 

	
This Must Be the Place: Inside the Walker’s Collection 
	JUN 20 2024 - APR 29 2029
Galleries 4, 5, 6	
Grounded in the many meanings and ideas of “home,” This Must Be the Place is a major exhibition showcasing works drawn from across the Walker’s dynamic collections. The presentation ranges from iconic pieces to works shown here for the first time, offering a place to experience different stories and perspectives, both broad and complex. The exhibition unfolds over three galleries, with spotlight sections that give emphasis to core ideas of community, the urban environment, and the natural landscape.
The section titled Kith and Kin explores representations of friends, family, and community and highlights recent acquisitions by Njideka Akunyili Crosby and Jennifer Packer, among others. The City centers on the urban environment and public spaces, whereas the Land will look at the natural landscape and forms of settlement. Across the galleries are visitor favorites, including paintings such as Franz Marc’s The Large Blue Horses (1911) and Edward Hopper’s Office at Night (1940). The reinstallation incorporates visitor feedback gathered from the prior exhibition Make Sense of This (2023), with special considerations to how works are presented and described to encourage understanding and engagement. Together, these works establish the collection as an evolving, living resource for communities and a home for hundreds of intersecting stories and voices.
https://www.walkerart.org/whats-on/this-must-be-the-place-inside-the-walkers-collection/ 
	
	
Christine Sun Kim: All Day All Night
	MAR 28 2026 - AUG 30 2026
	Galleries 1, 2, 3
	Artist and activist Christine Sun Kim (US, b. 1980) demonstrates that language is never neutral. With sharp wit and incisive commentary, Kim examines the complexities of communication and exposes the nonauditory and political dimensions of sound. In works spanning drawings, videos, sculptures, and installations, she challenges the assumption that spoken languages hold greater value than those that are signed.
Drawing on the spatial dynamism of American Sign Language (ASL), Kim translates its movement and grammar into graphic form. She employs musical notation, infographics, and text—in both her native ASL and written English—to reconceptualize and reclaim ownership of sound. Through her distinct aesthetic logic, musical dynamic markers evoke the sound of feelings, pie charts present memeified social commentary, and geometric angles measure “degrees of Deaf rage.”
Sound, Kim reminds us, is inextricable from the cultures and spaces that shape it. In her large-scale murals and video installations, she uses the structure of built environments to mirror and amplify the structure of sign language. In her piece Prolonged Echo (2023), for instance, the floor acts like a flat open palm, while the mural on the walls traces the rebounding trajectory of the sign for “echo.” Playing with scale and collaborative potential alike, Kim also engages artists, interpreters, and audiences in performances and sound experiments that further underscore the physicality of language.
	https://www.walkerart.org/whats-on/christine-sun-kim-all-day-all-night/ 

	
Rosy Simas: A:gajë:gwah dësa’nigöëwë:nye:’ (i hope it will stir your mind)
	FEB 12 2026 - JUL 5 2026 
	Gallery C/Burnet 
	Created in partnership with a team of collaborators, A:gajë:gwah dësa’nigöëwë:nye:’ (i hope it will stir your mind) foregrounds the Seneca notion of a “good mind.” Rooted in Rosy Simas’s (Seneca Nation of Indians, Heron clan) intentional practice, this transdisciplinary exhibition weaves together moving image, sound, and sculpture. It combines materials such as treaty cloth, deerskin, and traditional cornhusk-twined bottles into a space for considered contemplation and reflection.
For Simas, the installation serves as both a physical representation of her family and a reflection of Hodinöšyö:nih philosophies. Citing Anishinaabe writer Gerald Vizenor, Simas describes each element of the exhibition as an act of “survivance,” a reflection of the circular patterns of protection between herself and her ancestors. Integrating extensive research with lived experience, A:gajë:gwah dësa’nigöëwë:nye:’ cultivates peacemaking and community well-being in a time of deadly politics, racism, and bigotry.
https://www.walkerart.org/whats-on/rosy-simas-agajegwah-desanigoewenye-i-hope-it-will-stir-your-mind-2/ 

	
Trisha Brown and Robert Rauschenberg: Glacial Decoy
	JUN 26 2025 - MAY 24 2026 
	Gallery 7/Medtronic
In 1979 choreographer Trisha Brown and artist Robert Rauschenberg created a landmark work that carved out new possibilities for the convergence of dance and visual art. After years of choreographing for unconventional spaces such as rooftops, walls, and city parks, Brown invited Rauschenberg—her longtime friend and fellow artist—to collaborate on Glacial Decoy. Commissioned by the Walker Art Center, the piece represented Brown’s first work for the proscenium stage.
An homage to its namesake, Trisha Brown and Robert Rauschenberg: Glacial Decoy presents Rauschenberg’s original décor and costumes alongside related prints, archival materials, and video of historic and recent performances. The projected set features Rauschenberg’s black-and-white photographs, which advance across the stage in a steady rhythm, echoing Brown’s choreography of continuous entrances and exits. The images—tires, melting ice, freight trains—transform everyday scenes into a poetic visual landscape. His translucent costumes similarly play with presence and absence, framing the body in motion. 
https://www.walkerart.org/whats-on/trisha-brown-and-robert-rauschenberg-glacial-decoy/ 

	



                                                                     
  - Detroit: 
DIA     
General museum link: https://dia.org/ 
Ticket link: https://dia.org/tickets 
Admissions info:

Adults
$20.00
Senior or College Student (w/valid ID)
$10.00
Youth (6-17)
$8.00
Children (5 and under)
Free
Members
Free


Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://dia.org/events/exhibitions 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL   

	Dancing Puppets
	FEB 24 2026 - JUL 24 2026
	Spinning, leaping, gliding—these dancing puppets dazzled audiences with their costumes, expressions, and gestures. 
Skilled puppet makers and performers Ada Forman, the Lauer Sisters, and Frank Paris entertained audiences with their creations, which often depicted celebrities of the 1920s and 1930s, including ice-skating champion Sonja Henie, actress Greta Garbo, and performer Josephine Baker. 
	https://dia.org/events/exhibitions/dancing-puppets 
	
	
Highlights from the Modern Collection
	AUG 8 2025 - AUG 8 2026
	Discover around 65 standout works from the DIA’s renowned modern art collection—featuring bold movements like impressionism, post-impressionism, cubism, expressionism, surrealism, and abstraction. Beloved icons and rarely seen treasures share the spotlight, among them works by Francis Bacon, Jean Dubuffet, Paul Cézanne, Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, Claude Monet, Roberto Montenegro, Georgia O’Keeffe, Pablo Picasso, John Sloan, Vincent van Gogh, and Remedios Varo.
Spanning three galleries—two focused primarily on European art and one on the art of the Americas—this striking presentation reflects the profound transformations that reshaped Europe, the United States, Mexico, and Brazil between the mid-1800s and 1960s. Industrialization, global conflict, and cultural exchange fueled these artists' groundbreaking approaches as they responded to a rapidly changing world.
Dynamic groupings encourage fresh connections and unexpected conversations across time, place, and perspective—offering new ways to experience old favorites before they return to our reimagined Modern art galleries.
	https://dia.org/events/exhibitions/highlights-modern-collection 

	
Reimagine African American Art
OCT 18 2025 - OCT 18 2026
The Detroit Institute of Arts began collecting African American art in 1943. In 2000, the DIA established the Center for African American Art and in 2001 appointed the first curator dedicated to African American art in an encyclopedic American museum, signaling the museum’s ongoing support and celebration of African American art and history.
Now, for the first time since 2007, the museum is reinstalling its African American galleries to showcase new works in the DIA’s collection in concert with existing favorites. Reimagine African American Art will highlight the collection by moving the galleries to one of the museum’s most prominent spaces — directly adjacent to Rivera Court. This transformative reinstallation, opening October 18, 2025, traces the development of African American art from the 1800s, when a few African Americans overcame tremendous challenges to become professional artists, to the 1980s, when some began to receive more national and international recognition.

Tracing the evolution of African American culture, the collection provides a powerful lens into the lives, achievements, and resilience of Black artists. Four dedicated galleries will explore key historical movements, including the Harlem Renaissance, Social Realism, the Civil Rights era, and the Black Arts Movement. The reinstalled galleries will feature a variety of media — drawings, prints, photography, paintings, and sculpture.
https://dia.org/events/exhibitions/reimagine-african-american-art 
	
	
Guests of Honor: Frederic Church’s Cotopaxi 
	MAR 27 2026 - OCT 25 2026 
	To mark the 200th anniversary of Frederic Church’s birth, the Detroit Institute of Arts presents Guests of Honor: Frederic Church’s Cotopaxi, an exhibition highlighting the artist’s dramatic 1862 painting of an erupting South American volcano. One of the DIA’s most beloved American paintings, Cotopaxi appears together with three of Church’s oil studies of the volcano and a related landscape by his contemporary, Louis Remy Mignot. The 10th installment in the DIA’s Guests of Honor series, which brings single or small groups of extraordinary works from across the globe to Detroit, Frederic Church’s Cotopaxi features loans from Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum. Like many of his contemporaries, Church was fascinated by the emerging science of geology that suggested the earth was both older than previously believed and always changing—a fact evidenced by the eruption of volcanoes. Eager to see these forces of nature, Church traveled to Colombia and Ecuador in 1853 and 1857 and used sketches completed there to create the DIA’s great Cotapaxi, the first of his works to show a violent volcanic eruption.
	https://dia.org/events/exhibitions/guests-honor-frederic-churchs-cotopaxi 

	
Guests of Honor: Art of Faith from the Jewish Museum, New York 
	DEC 5 2025 - JAN 3 2027
	Guests of Honor: Art of Faith from the Jewish Museum, New York presents a selection of Jewish ceremonial objects, dating from the 1400s to the early 1900s, installed throughout the Detroit Institute of Arts’ encyclopedic collection. 
 
The ninth installment in the DIA’s Guests of Honor series, which brings single or small groups of extraordinary works from across the globe to Detroit, Art of Faith features loans from the Jewish Museum in New York, one of the oldest museums of its kind in the world. 
 
Some objects, such as silver Torah crowns and finials, were created to honor Judaism’s holiest text. Others, like Hanukkah lamps, were used in the celebration of specific holidays. Together with works from the DIA’s collection, they convey themes of religious diversity and artistry across Europe, the Middle East, and North Africa. 
 
Displayed in four galleries of European art and one gallery for arts of the Islamic world, these works highlight the presence of vibrant Jewish communities past and present and invite visitors to explore visual connections between objects from Art of Faith and surrounding artworks.
	https://dia.org/events/exhibitions/guests-honor-art-faith-jewish-museum-new-york 

	
Guests of Honor: Armor as Fashion
	APR 25 2025 - APR 25 2027
	Guests of Honor: Armor as Fashion reunites the spectacular Portrait of Jean de Croÿ, 2nd Count of Solre, by Juan van der Hamen y Léon (1596–1631) with three pieces of the gilded armor forged in Brussels and worn by Croÿ in the painting. 
The eighth installment in the DIA’s Guests of Honor series, which brings single or small groups of extraordinary works from across the globe to Detroit, this display features loans from the Musée des Beaux-Arts of Valenciennes, France, and the private Cruz-Mayor Collection in Spain. 
During the golden age of European plate armor, from the late 14th until the early 17th centuries, finely crafted steel defenses became powerful status symbols. Beyond its associations with knightly honor and courage, luxury armor increasingly signified the wealth and taste of its wearer. Similar to today’s fashion, armor could express its owner’s personality or background and even spark international trends among the glittering courts of Europe. Like portraits, armors were objects of display and treasured heirlooms, preserved in the collections of their owners’ families. 
Guests of Honor: Armor as Fashion highlights these aspects of the art of armor by displaying the portrait together with pieces of the magnificent armor it depicts, reunited for the first time in over two centuries. Presented in the DIA’s Cracchiolo Gallery, these special loans join 17th-century treasures from the permanent collection, expanding the gallery’s story of European Baroque Art.
	https://dia.org/events/exhibitions/guests-honor-armor-fashion 
	
	
Folk Art
APR 3 2026 - DEC 3 2027 
A new gallery in the DIA’s American Wing highlights the unique beauty and complex stories of American folk art.
Artists without formal training created the paintings, carvings, ceramics, weathervanes, and toys in this gallery. Their works show the playful, inventive, and sophisticated visions of everyday Americans who made art with the tools around them.
The gallery includes paintings that depict the lives of everyday people, sculptural objects rich with cultural memory, and playful inventions by craftspeople who transformed humble materials. The artists worked in different regions across the eastern, southern, and midwestern United States.
	https://dia.org/events/exhibitions/folk-art 

	


                                                                                          
  - Cleveland: 
Cleveland Museum of Art    
General museum link: https://www.clevelandart.org/home 
Ticket link: https://www.clevelandart.org/whats-on/all 
Admissions info: Free General Admission (for special exhibitions and events, book tickets on the website)
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://www.clevelandart.org/whats-on/exhibitions 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL 

	Martin Puryear: Nexus
	APR 12 2026 - AUG 9 2026
	003 Special Exhibition Hall, 224B Video
	Martin Puryear: Nexus highlights the global histories that have inspired Puryear’s practice, offering a fresh and timely perspective on his impactful body of work. Puryear’s art is renowned for its elegance and beauty. While accentuating the work’s visual allure, this exhibition and its accompanying catalogue look beyond form. The exhibition’s interpretive frame, rooted in new scholarship, sheds light on the ways that the artist’s unique visual vocabulary has been shaped by his enduring interests in global traditions of material culture, African American history, and the natural world. 
https://www.clevelandart.org/exhibitions/martin-puryear-nexus 
	
	
	Manet & Morisot 
	MAR 29 2026 - JUL 5 2026
	004 Special Exhibition Gallery
	Manet & Morisot is the first ever major exhibition dedicated to the artistic exchange between Édouard Manet, often referred to as the father of modern painting, and Berthe Morisot, the only woman among the founding members of the Impressionist movement. Unfolding over a period of roughly 15 years, between 1868 and 1883, theirs was perhaps the closest relationship between any two members of the Impressionist circle. As friends and colleagues—by turns collaborative and competitive—they collected one another’s work. Morisot posed for some of Manet’s most compelling portraits, several of which are on view in the first gallery of the exhibition. When she married Manet’s younger brother, their professional connection deepened into a familial bond. Thirty-six paintings and six drawings and prints borrowed from museums and private collections in the United States and Europe reveal the evolution of a singular friendship between two groundbreaking artists. Visitors see beach and garden scenes made en plein air (out-of-doors) that demonstrate how Manet borrowed individual motifs and compositional ideas directly from Morisot. Portraits of fashionable Parisian women of the 1880s by the two artists show their different perspectives; Manet’s paintings were inspired by admiration and erotic interest while Morisot’s were informed by lived experience. The exhibition closes with a self-portrait by Morisot painted when she was in her mid-40s, revealing her perception of herself as a professional artist. 
https://www.clevelandart.org/exhibitions/manet-morisot 

	
	Pintóricchio Magnified: An Immersive Conservation Experience 
	AUG 10 2025 - AUG 23 2026
	115 Manuscripts and Textiles
	For almost 50 years, Pintoricchio’s Virgin and Child (c. 1490–1500) was in storage at the CMA, its last original layers of blue paint hidden beneath a mask of restoration treatments undertaken in the 1900s. Although considered one of the most significant paintings within the early Italian collection, its complicated restoration history and physical state rendered it largely unexhibitable.
In the most recent conservation treatment, original paint layers were revealed, allowing unparalleled access to Pintoricchio’s original composition, freed from past interventions. This allowed conservators to embark on the rediscovery and reexamination of one of the more damaged paintings within the CMA collection and use cutting-edge technologies to better understand the materials and techniques used by the artist. Through a large digital display, visitors can traverse the layers of the painting and its conservation treatment, examining changing details as if magnified under a microscope.
https://www.clevelandart.org/exhibitions/pintoricchio-magnified-immersive-conservation-experience 


	Epic of the Northwest Himalayas: Pahari Paintings from the “‘Shangri’ Ramayana” 
	APR 19 2026 - AUG 16 2026
	010 Focus Gallery
	Forty paintings are reunited from a widely dispersed pictorial series that presents the story of the Hindu divine hero Rama. The timeless tale, more than 2,000 years old, remains a cultural force across southern Asia. Potent themes of righteousness, vengeance, and loyalty are explored through dramatic episodes in which demons are vanquished, lovers are separated, and monkeys, bears, and a man-eagle save the day. Magic abounds, and emotions fly with warriors’ arrows. Three digital stations present more than 100 gently animated images of paintings from multiple collections reassembled into their original episodic sequences.  
Created with blazing colors for a royal collection around 1700, the “Shangri” Ramayana has been a beloved and enigmatic series among scholars and collectors for the past century. New evidence from previously unpublished paintings reveals many more artistic styles and triple the number of total folios than have been previously recognized. It argues in favor of a collaborative model of production involving artists from across the alpine region of Pahari India, which straddles the present-day state of Himachal Pradesh and that of Jammu and Kashmir. 
https://www.clevelandart.org/exhibitions/epic-northwest-himalayas-pahari-paintings-shangri-ramayana 


	still/emerging: Native American Works on Paper
	FEB 1 2026 - JUN 7 2026
101A-B Prints and Drawings, 100 1916 Lobby
still/emerging: Native American Works on Paper is the first exhibition to highlight the Cleveland Museum of Art’s collection of prints and drawings by Native American artists. In 2022, the creation of the museum’s Indigenous Peoples and Land Acknowledgment inspired a commitment to greatly strengthen its holdings in this important field. The title of this show comes from a poem on Indigenous survivance by Navajo poet Kinsale Drake and references the fact that the CMA land acknowledgment serves “not as an end but rather as the beginning” of an ongoing collaboration with our Native community members. The objects on view survey the ways in which Native artists have innovatively used various print and drawing techniques to explore their cultural heritage. This exhibition includes around 30 works created from the 1950s through today that showcase the unique histories and perspectives of Indigenous artists from a number of backgrounds and tribal affiliations.	https://www.clevelandart.org/exhibitions/stillemerging-native-american-works-paper 


	Juxtaposition and Juncture in Korean Modern and Contemporary Art
	MAR 21 2025 - MAY 3 2026 
	236 Korean
	The term “juxtaposition” here refers to the side-by-side placement of two or more artworks that are significantly different from one another. Featuring Korean modern and contemporary objects that the CMA has collected over the past 15 years, this thematic exhibition juxtaposes them to create an exciting juncture of connections through their visual and material contrasts.  
While the selected works were created by Korean artists from diverse backgrounds and different generations, they make a poignant meeting place illustrating how objects from the past inspired contemporary artists to create new experiences and artistic expressions.  
https://www.clevelandart.org/exhibitions/juxtaposition-and-juncture-korean-modern-and-contemporary-art 

	
	Adorning Ritual: Jewish Ceremonial Art from the Jewish Museum, New York
	MAY 25 2025 - MAY 10 2026
	Various Galleries
	The Cleveland Museum of Art houses an encyclopedic collection, giving visitors valuable insights and perspectives into the lives and cultures of people around the world and throughout time. To enhance its permanent collection and to more fully represent the stories and objects important to our communities, the museum is displaying art on loan from the Jewish Museum, New York, in six galleries.
Most of the works are ritual objects relating to Judaism or the lives of Jewish people, from silver Torah finials to an inlaid marble panel commemorating a marriage. The objects have been placed in context with other works of the same time or region, allowing a fuller narrative to unfold. As you encounter these objects in the galleries, we invite you to consider their relationships to the other works in these spaces.
https://www.clevelandart.org/exhibitions/adorning-ritual-jewish-ceremonial-art-jewish-museum-new-york 


	A Myriad of Flowers and Birds in Chinese Art
	NOV 16 2025 - MAY 24 2026
	240A Chinese Paintings and Calligraphy 
	For artists of historical China, the natural world was a major source of inspiration. Birds and flowers reflect nature’s beauty in an ideal way. Bird-and-flower paintings were not only appreciated for their decorative appeal and artistic merit, the motifs may also have symbolic connotation and sometimes form a rebus, a visual and auditory pun, to express good wishes to the recipient.  
This display presents around 20 paintings, porcelain, and embroidery from the collections of the museum and a private collector, some of which have not been shown to the public before. 
https://www.clevelandart.org/exhibitions/myriad-flowers-and-birds-chinese-art 

	
	Highlights of Japanese Art
	DEC 7 2025 - JUN 14 2026
	235A-B Japanese
	These galleries feature recent acquisitions in dialogue with treasures from the museum’s world-renowned collection of Japanese art. The impressive, large-scale Welcoming Descent of Amida with Twenty-Five Bodhisattvas from the mid-1300s is displayed alongside the important early 1300s handscroll The Illustrated Miraculous Origins of the Yūzū Nenbutsu School, which depicts Buddhists interacting with paintings of Amida in descent.
A diminutive sculpture from the 1100s of Gozu Tennō, the ox-headed plague deity, is on view with a large Buddhist sketch and an image of Zaō Gongen, the deity of Mount Kinpu, both also from the same period. Together, these works of art show how Buddhist iconography informed how other gods were represented.
Five small-scale Nabeshima dishes showcase the versatility of ceramists in northern Kyushu during the 1600s and early 1700s, while a complex pair of early 1600s screens depicts the arrival of European traders to the port city of Nagasaki. 
https://www.clevelandart.org/exhibitions/highlights-japanese-art 


	Pahari Paintings: Art and Stories
	JAN 18 2026 - AUG 23 2026
	242B Indian Painting 
	In the far north of India, the Himalayan mountain ranges rise abruptly from the Punjab plains to form the alpine region known as Pahari, defined by a shared language (Pahari) and script (Takri). From the 1600s to 1900s, the Hindu nobility of the Pahari kingdoms commissioned paintings for their royal collections. Known as “Pahari paintings,” they were made by painters who were born into hereditary artist communities located in villages throughout the region. By the end of the 1900s, many descendants of royal families dispersed them, and they became some of the most popular and widely collected genres of Indian painting in the world.
This installation celebrates the CMA’s 2018 acquisition and 2026 publication of the Pahari paintings from the renowned Catherine Glynn Benkaim and Ralph Benkaim Collection. It includes portraits of key patrons, a large-scale historical painting on cloth, and paintings of religious and poetic subjects. A special feature on paintings from a mystical romance, the Madhavanala-Kamakandala, reveals the complex dynamic between visual and literary arts, the sacred and the secular, Hindu and Muslim, local and mainstream. Two double-sided embroideries, known as rumal, showcase textile art made by Pahari women in collaboration with painters who were predominantly men. These 23 works of art summarize the scope of Pahari painting.
https://www.clevelandart.org/exhibitions/pahari-paintings-art-and-stories 


	American Printed Silks, 1927-1947
	NOV 9 2025 - NOV 8 2026
	234 Textile Gallery
	Between the late 1920s and late 1940s, the US was a leader in printed silks used in fashionable attire and interiors. This exhibition showcases printed silks in the CMA’s collection from four American companies—Stehli Silks Corporation, H. R. Mallinson and Company, Silks Beau Monde, and Onondaga Silk Company.  
https://www.clevelandart.org/exhibitions/american-printed-silks-1927-1947 
	

	Silver, Gold, and Gems: A Spotlight on Jewelry Across Africa
	DEC 7 2025 - DEC 6 2026
	108C African Jewelry and Metalwork
	For the first time, view a permanent display of gold and silver jewelry from across the African continent on view in the collection galleries of the Cleveland Museum of Art. Admire a selection of glittering ornaments from the Akan states of West Africa, shimmering gemstones from the Maghreb region, hair accessories from ancient Egypt in Northern Africa, and the bold silver of five recently gifted Ethiopian necklaces from East Africa. Spanning thousands of years, these works testify to the depth of African creativity, the skill of jewelers on the continent, and the eternal human desire for adornment.
https://www.clevelandart.org/exhibitions/silver-gold-and-gems-spotlight-jewelry-across-africa 

	
	Native North American Textiles 
	DEC 19 2025 - DEC 13 2026
	231 Native North American
	Newly on display from the permanent collection are two Diné (Navajo) textiles from the late 1800s. Both are rugs woven for the non-Native collectors’ market, modeled on the Diné shoulder blanket.
https://www.clevelandart.org/exhibitions/native-north-american-textiles-1 


	Ancient Andean Textiles
	DEC 19 2025 - DEC 13 2026
	232 Andean
	Between about 3000 BCE and the early 1500s CE, ancient Andean weavers created one of the world’s most distinguished textile traditions in both artistic and technical terms. Within this time span, the most complex and well-preserved group of early textiles to survive was made by the Paracas people of Peru’s south coast.
https://www.clevelandart.org/exhibitions/ancient-andean-textiles-3 



	Hidden Insights: Looking at the Backs of Portrait Miniatures
	FEB 20 2026 - FEB 14 2027
	203B British Painting and Decorative Arts
	Portrait miniatures were portable luxury objects treasured by their owners both for the cherished portrait and the precious materials from which they were crafted. Frequently, patrons would spend substantially more than the cost of the portrait to have it placed in a gold or silver case outfitted with pearls, enamel, diamonds, colored glass, or elaborate hair work. Thirteen miniatures spanning 230 years represent a variety of approaches to ornamenting the back of a portrait and suggest the wealth of information that can be hidden from view. 
https://www.clevelandart.org/exhibitions/hidden-insights-looking-backs-portrait-miniatures 


	Children’s Armor from the Imperial Habsburg Armory in Vienna
	JUN 1 2025 - JUN 4 2028
	210A Armor Court
	Four historically significant suits of armor from the Imperial Habsburg Armory in Vienna, Austria, are being displayed in the armor court for the next three years. The selection focuses on children’s armor and weapons to illustrate how a military education played an important role in training boys to become a knight. A few objects from the CMA’s own collection of children’s armor are being shown alongside these magnificent loans. 
https://www.clevelandart.org/exhibitions/childrens-armor-imperial-habsburg-armory-vienna 


	New Acquisition: Giambologna’s “Fata Morgana” 
	AUG 30 2025 - SEP 1 2030
	117B Italian Renaissance 
	The Cleveland Museum of Art has acquired Fata Morgana, one of the greatest works by Giambologna (1529–1608), the preeminent sculptor of his generation, and the last known marble sculpture by his hand in a private collection. This rare and internationally renowned figure is being shown in a gallery evoking the Tuscan grotto in which it was originally placed. 
https://www.clevelandart.org/exhibitions/new-acquisition-giambolognas-fata-morgana 



                                                                       
  - Cincinnati: 
Cincinnati Art Museum
General museum link: https://www.cincinnatiartmuseum.org/ 
Ticket link: https://www.cincinnatiartmuseum.org/visit/tickets-admission/ 
Admissions info: Free General Admission (Special Exhibition and Event ticket pricing may vary: book tickets ahead of time on the website)
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://www.cincinnatiartmuseum.org/art/exhibitions/ 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL

	Longing: Painting from the Pahari Kingdoms of the Northwest Himalayas
	FEB 6 2026 - JUN 7 2026
	Galleries 124 and 125
	Featuring more than forty works of art, Longing: Painting from the Pahari Kingdoms of the Northwest Himalayas displays colorful court paintings from present-day India dating between the seventeenth and nineteenth centuries. These small, portable paintings were produced for royal and noble patronage by artists practicing unique artistic techniques. Influenced by the region’s culture and politics, they portray moments of leisure, religious devotion, and political positioning, and were given as gifts between regional nobility, families, and political allies. Many paintings portray devotional acts meant to connect with the divine; others depict individuals and couples who yearn for romantic dalliance; still others portray rulers and noblemen who longed to be at the center of political control.
Organized around the theme of “longing,” the exhibition encourages visitors to experience art as multisensorial. Select paintings are paired with olfactory stations, touch opportunities, and musical soundscapes to heighten the work’s bhava (emotion or mood) and to encourage multiple ways to physically, intellectually, and emotionally connect with art.
https://www.cincinnatiartmuseum.org/art/exhibitions/longing-painting-from-the-pahari-kingdoms-of-the-northwest-himalayas/ 



Thing Big: Large-Scale Works from the Contemporary Collection
	APR 10 2026 - AUG 23 2026 
These 40 works represent multiple media and styles carried out in expansive scale and vision.
https://www.cincinnatiartmuseum.org/art/exhibitions/special-features/   
	

	
Tamary Kudita: African Victorian and Birds of Paradise 
	MAY 3 2025 - SEP 6 2026 
	Gallery 104
	Tamary Kudita (b. 1994) makes photographs that examine African identity in relation to the social and historical forces that frame individuals’ lives. Kudita lives and works in Zimbabwe, a country formerly colonized by Great Britain. She traces her family heritage to the Shona-speaking people of Zimbabwe and to a nineteenth-century union between a Black South African plantation worker and a Dutch soldier. Mixing cultural signifiers across centuries and continents, Kudita’s portraits make the hybrid nature of African identities visible while giving everyday Zimbabweans their due. 
https://www.cincinnatiartmuseum.org/art/exhibitions/special-features/tamary-kudita-african-victorian-and-birds-of-paradise/ 



	C A M P G R O U N D
	OCT 30 2014 - TBD
	Exterior Installation
	C A M P G R O U N D evokes a billboard one may still discover along a country highway. It advertises with the familiar vacation icons of tire swings and sparking campfires. The animated sign promises outdoor escape and primitive comfort against the massive holdings and complexities of civilization. The promise, however, hints at its own future of being unfulfilled as neon displaces “nature” and its white lines outline an artificial landscape. 
https://www.cincinnatiartmuseum.org/art/exhibitions/special-features/campground-an-artworks-mural/ 



                                                                             
  - Atlanta: 
High Museum of Art  
General museum link: https://high.org/ 
Ticket link: https://high.org/tickets 
Admissions info:
Not-Yet-Members $23.50 (+$2.09 for applicable fees)
Children 5 and under enter for free
Members Free
Museum Pass Free
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://high.org/exhibitions/current 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL

	Blazing Light: Photographs by Mimi Plumb 
	FEB 6 2026 - MAY 10 2026
	A preeminent artist of her generation, Mimi Plumb has photographed the human-altered landscape for five decades to conjure the enduring issues of our day. Blazing Light, the artist’s first museum exhibition, brings together her three most important bodies of work that collectively contemplate the anxieties of contemporary American culture: the combined effects of climate change, unbridled capitalism, and ceaseless military conflict. As a teenager in the 1970s, Plumb began photographing during a time of rapid land development coupled with global political and economic instability. Her early artistic life was defined by a burgeoning awareness of global warming and the looming threats posed by the Cold War. This atmosphere attuned her to the evidence of such forces in the land, the built environment, and the ways people carry themselves and relate to one another—concerns that continue to abide in her work.
Working in and around San Francisco, Plumb photographs the grand yet fragile beauty of the American West and the peculiarities of urban life with a distinctively raw visual approach. She skillfully renders California’s notoriously intense sunlight in gritty black-and-white images to amplify the psychological tension and imaginative possibilities that define turbulent times. The White Sky (1972–1978) captures the final glimmers of innocence and optimism during the years following World War II, as cracks in the façade of the American Dream began to widen. Landfall and The Golden City (1984–2020) present a society descending into chaos as an ambiguous disaster looms. The Reservoir (2021–2025) conveys a stark and desolate world seemingly in the aftermath of a powerful, undefined apocalypse. Across these bodies of work, Plumb mournfully charts how persistent unease continues to manifest from the dark realms of imagination into pressing realities.
https://high.org/exhibition/mimi-plumb/ 


	The Family Album of Ralph Eugene Meatyard 
	DEC 12 2025 - MAY 10 2026
	A largely self-taught photographer, Ralph Eugene Meatyard (American, 1925–1972) was a pioneering and inventive artist who created some of the most original images of the mid-twentieth century. His work defies easy categorization as he experimented across various genres and subjects, and throughout his career, he maintained the ethos of an amateur, approaching photography with a sense of affection, discovery, and surprise. He is best known for his staged scenes that suggest an absurd fantasy set in the dilapidated houses and banal suburban environs near his home in Lexington, Kentucky. These scenes, often featuring his family as actors and using props such as masks and dolls, reveal Meatyard’s search for inner truths amid the ordinary.
This exhibition, coinciding with the artist’s centenary, features the thirty-six prints that comprise the artist’s first monograph (Gnomon Press, 1970)—one of only two books he published in his lifetime—which Meatyard intended to stand as his definitive artistic statement. All thrity-six prints were recently acquired by the High for the Museum’s permanent collection. Through his idiosyncratic selection of images, this exhibition explores how Meatyard’s singular approach and voracious curiosity expanded photography’s expressive and conceptual potential.
	https://high.org/exhibition/meatyard/ 
	

	Isamu Noguchi: “I am not a designer”
	APR 10 2026 - AUG 2 2026
	In a 1949 interview, sculptor Isamu Noguchi declared “I am not a designer.” Yet, in the forty years following this denial, he went on to realize some of the most innovative designs of the twentieth century, including architecture, furniture, lighting, stage sets, gardens, playgrounds, and plazas. Even when Noguchi or critics acknowledged these design projects, it was as separate from his celebrated sculptures.
This exhibition explores Noguchi’s expansive and career-spanning engagement with the space-shaping possibilities of design. Approaching his practice through a design framework offers an opportunity to consider the significance of collaboration and thinking across disciplines. A host of architects, clients, corporations, fabricators, and other creative practitioners contributed to almost all the projects featured here. The exhibition celebrates these individuals’ impact on Noguchi’s exploration of design as a means of shaping generous, inclusive space—a commitment that remains radical and relevant today.
The exhibition unfolds thematically across three sections that connect concepts, disciplines, scale, and materials. Each section includes models, prototypes, and plans that reveal process. Not all these projects were fully realized, but all were critical to Noguchi’s artistic evolution. Making Multiples explores Noguchi’s forays into industrial manufacturing and experiments with the possibilities of reproducibility. Elements of Architecture follows the expansion of Noguchi’s design thinking and his reimagination of architecture’s elemental principles. Shaping Spaces celebrates his commitment to utopian world-building and civic function in large-scale, outdoor projects.
https://high.org/exhibition/noguchi/ 




                                                                                 
  - Pittsburgh: 
Carnegie Museum of Art  
General museum link: https://carnegieart.org/ 
Ticket link: https://my.carnegiemuseums.org/events/oak-general-admission26?view=calendar&kid=2&site=CMA 
Admissions info:
	Adult $25
	Adult (65+) $20
	Child $15
	Child (Under 3) Free
	Student $15
	Teen $15
All Visitors: Late Afternoon Discount
Enjoy $12 admission after 3 p.m. on weekdays. Use promotional code AFTER3 during your checkout.
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://carnegieart.org/art/whats-on-view/ 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL  

	What Brings Us Here?
	ONGOING
	Scaife Gallery 2
As a welcome, orientation, and invitation to Carnegie Museum of Art’s collection, the museum’s entry gallery presents works in response to a driving question: what brings us here?
Recognizing that a museum is a place to gather for art, conversations, ideas, and social interactions, this gallery foregrounds works that invite visitors to explore how art shapes perceptions, memories, and understandings of a shared place. Starting with the museum and radiating out to Pittsburgh, the region, the country, and beyond, the question of “here” prompts creative responses from artists and visitors alike. From an 18th-century history painting to a contemporary abstraction, from ceramics and fused glass to film, the revealing juxtapositions of works across time, geography, and medium in this gallery celebrate inquiry, expressions, and achievements of many kinds while providing multiple entry points into the museum’s expansive collection.
https://carnegieart.org/exhibition/what-brings-us-here/ 


	Inheritance 
	ONGOING
	Scaife Gallery 3
	As possessions pass from one generation to the next, personal values, social hierarchies, and belief systems do too. In 1895, industrialist Andrew Carnegie, who amassed his wealth from steel, established the Carnegie Institute and inscribed on its stone edifice, “Gift to the People of Pittsburgh.” In his dedication speech for the building, he also stated, “Nothing is given for nothing,” prompting the question: What did he expect in exchange? 
	The artworks chosen for this gallery span different periods in the museum’s collecting history. Through their selection and their relation to each other, the artworks invite reflections, questions, and conversations about the social and personal dimensions of inheritance, gifts, and exchange. How have artists responded to the region’s inherited legacy of steel and the repercussions of extractive resource industries more broadly? What ideas of art, beauty, and culture do the objects on view here perpetuate or disrupt as time passes? What choices are possible today based on decisions of the past? And what impact will our decisions have on future generations of inheritors?
https://carnegieart.org/exhibition/inheritance/ 



	A History of the Carnegie International 
	ONGOING 
	Scaife Gallery 4 
	Among the many stories of the Carnegie International, the museum’s signature exhibition series, the one you find in this gallery is a tale of objects that traveled from near and far and ended up in Carnegie Museum of Art’s collection.
Since its inaugural edition in 1896, the International has showcased works by nearly 5,000 artists from approximately 60 countries. Although the frequency, format, and focus have changed over time, the series continues to reach across geographies to bring together art, people, and ideas.
Most of the contributions get returned to their creators, but the museum has consistently looked to the International as an opportunity to build its collection. 520 artworks and counting acquired from past Internationals have helped shape the identity of the museum as a constantly evolving institution. Presented here is a small selection of those works that narrate different chapters of the exhibition series. You will encounter more art that once debuted as part of the International throughout the galleries and on the museum grounds.
https://carnegieart.org/exhibition/a-history-of-the-carnegie-international/ 



	Charles “Teenie” Harris Archive Gallery 
	ONGOING
	Scaife Gallery 7 
	Since 2001, Carnegie Museum of Art has been stewarding the Charles “Teenie” Harris Archive consisting of over 70,000 black-and-white and color negatives, prints, and films. This gallery is an expansive expression of the archive, offering unparalleled access to the breadth of Harris’s body of work with never-before-seen color photographs and moving images alongside iconic black-and-white photographs, film negatives, and recorded oral histories.
As a community resource, the Charles “Teenie” Harris Archive is activated through the research, memories, and generational connections of the community, as well as through the dedicated work of our museum staff. This gallery provides multiple points of entry into the artist’s legacy and history, creating a space for each visitor to recognize themselves as archivists.
https://carnegieart.org/exhibition/charles-teenie-harris-archive-gallery/ 



	Where Do We Stand?
	ONGOING 
	Scaife Gallery 17
	The ground perpetually shifts beneath us. The change of seasons freezes and thaws the soil. Roiling magma ruptures Earth’s crust. Life, in its many forms, roots, burrows, and other-wise shapes and textures the surface. In our ever-changing world, humans draw invisible lines called borders and build mountains, fill land, and dam water, and thus lay claim to places, regions, and territories. What does it mean to find our place on Earth, in Pittsburgh, or on the grounds now occupied by Carnegie Museum of Art?
In this gallery, the museum curators bring together artworks that reflect on the artists’ place in time and history—from Robert S. Duncanson, who recorded his presence by painting the American landscapes he traversed in the antebellum era, to Cauleen Smith, who explores geology to think deeply and broadly about contemporary life. Artists here represent land as powerful, sacred, bountiful, and beautiful, all the while addressing human histories of violence and dispossession of its Indigenous stewards and forced agricultural labor. This gallery charts a dynamic range of emotions expressed by artists in their creative response to their environment, like a seismograph that records Earth’s rumblings—both felt and unfelt. In its many representations here, land teaches and urges us to ground ourselves and know where we stand in relation to our mutable world.
https://carnegieart.org/exhibition/where-do-we-stand/  
	


                                                                        
  - MA: 
MASS MoCA  
General museum link: https://massmoca.org/about/?gad_source=1&gad_campaignid=22478699412&gbraid=0AAAAADzaGCWg4mbhBdiEl_IjVBSn7QIyw&gclid=CjwKCAjwwJzPBhBREiwAJfHRnYKLGGCE6laqKVwg1RXor76bU7rFUDE5ceDt0mfSWEam8wWJDN-YsBoCo3gQAvD_BwE 
Ticket link: https://tickets.massmoca.org/events?_gl=1*280ljn*_gcl_aw*R0NMLjE3NzY3OTk1NDIuQ2p3S0NBand3SnpQQmhCUkVpd0FKZkhSbllLTEdHQ0U2bGFxS1Z3ZzFSWG9yNzZiVTdyRlVERTVjZUR0MG1mU1dFYW04d1dKRE4tWXNCb0NvM2dRQXZEX0J3RQ..*_gcl_au*MjAxNTg4ODk1MS4xNzc2Nzk5NDg4*_ga*MTQ0NzI4MTI5MC4xNzc2Nzk5NDg0*_ga_PY3B3TXY7G*czE3NzY3OTk0ODMkbzEkZzEkdDE3NzY3OTk1OTUkajQxJGwwJGgw 
Admissions info:
Adults: $25
Seniors (65+) / Veterans: $22
Students with ID: $15
Kids (6-16): $10
Children 5 and under: FREE
Admission to Kidspace: FREE
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://massmoca.org/exhibitions/ 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL   

	Technologies of Relation
	THROUGH JUL 25 2027
	B6: The Robert W. Wilson Building
Responding to the rapidly advancing technologies that are shaping our daily lives and social fabric, the artists in Technologies of Relation examine how we relate to each other, to our devices, and to our future.
These creators see the complexity of our relationships to the digital, avoiding the binary views that frame technology as good or bad, as tool or monster. They embrace how technology can connect us, but also acknowledge how algorithms and A.I. have the tendency to oppress and erase marginalized communities. Artists have been key to identifying the colonialist logic, racism, and violence embedded in and produced by corporate-developed technologies and datasets. Just as crucial as understanding these problematics, this exhibition offers visions of a technological future that is inclusive and liberatory.
Working across mediums, addressing technology both with its own tools and through analog means, many of these artists — skilled technologists — choose simpler materials to give shape to their ideas. Their works demystify technology, reminding us that it is neither neutral nor authoritative, or beyond our scope of influence. They bring it closer by relating emerging technologies to the ancient arts of weaving, tattooing, and divination. These artists look to ancestral traditions as models for making technology more accessible, and for ways of imagining (or remembering) how we can employ more ethics and care in the technological sphere.
https://massmoca.org/event/technologies-of-relation/ 


	Jimena Sarno Rhapsody
	ONGOING
MASS MoCA Building 4, 2nd Floor + 5A
Jimena Sarno engages craft traditions to imagine a future built on values of collectivity, reconfiguration, and repair. For Rhapsody, the title of the exhibition and the installation at its core, Sarno collaborated with artists, teachers, and makers, most of whom are from the Global South, combining filmmaking, sound, and sculpture with contemporary and traditional craft practices. Within a global context of extreme violence, fragmentation, and destruction, the artists share time, space, and resources to deepen solidarity through making, repairing, and the collective production of alternative forms of knowledge. Sarno’s project is framed as an alternative to Modernism’s utilization of cultural production as a tool to imagine utopian futures while reinforcing global systems of coloniality. The central installation features a group of objects made using techniques — including weaving, felting, woodworking, and pottery — that rely on bodies of knowledge passed from maker to maker. These objects are tools — at once utilitarian and utopian — designed for a hoped-for, not-so-distant future built on solidarity and mutual care.	
https://massmoca.org/event/jimena-sarno-rhapsody/ 


	Zora J Murff Race/Hustle
	ONGOING
	Gallery 6.2
	Zora J Murff makes photographs, assemblages, videos, and text works that examine physical, psychic, and political violence, the rhythms and resonances of oppression throughout history and into the present, and the harmful desires that our visual culture cultivates. Zora J Murff is particularly attentive to the structures of state violence. His exhibition for MASS MoCA invites viewers to examine how systems of domination interlock and how their injurious effects are normalized and made invisible in everyday life. Zora J Murff’s photographs alternately capture poignant portraits, shots of playful light, the movement of cities, or signs of quiet life despite the odds. His collages combine text and images from a myriad of sources. For Zora J Murff, no issue is a single issue when the havoc created abroad is paid for, dearly, at home.
https://massmoca.org/event/zora-j-murff-race-hustle/ 


	New York State of Mind
	THROUGH JUL 19 2026
	MASS MoCA
	New York State of Mind is the newest rotation of music photography at MASS MoCA. The exhibition provides a snapshot of New York from 1969 to 1992, a span that gave us Bob Gruen’s iconic image of revelers at Woodstock, before depicting clubs such as Max’s Kansas City where we see Johnny Thunders, Iggy Pop, Lou Reed, David Bowie, Joan Baez, and Bruce Springsteen. We then go downtown to the Bowery to see Alex Chilton, the Cramps, and Patti Smith before finding Television in St. Mark’s Place and Tom Waits presiding over Times Square. And don’t forget the outer boroughs, where Madonna had her first show on Long Island, and an uncharacteristic Joey Ramone walks the beach in Coney Island with a surfboard.
https://massmoca.org/event/new-york-state-of-mind/ 


	Taryn Simon The Pipes
	Opens for the season MAY 23 2026
	Taryn Simon’s large-scale outdoor sculpture The Pipes is on long-term view on the MASS MoCA campus. What began as an oversized concrete instrument for a cacophony of global mourning in Simon’s work An Occupation of Loss (The Armory, 2016) will be populated by the sounds, collective call and response, and movements of a living public. The 11 structures that make up the installation – which Simon designed in collaboration with Shohei Shigematsu of architecture firm OMA – are an immersive experience, offered to the public as a sacred space for reflection, impromptu performance, and stargazing.
	https://massmoca.org/event/taryn-simon-the-pipes/ 


	Anselm Kiefer 
	Opens for the season MAY 23 2026
	Building 15
	The long-term exhibition—realized in collaboration with the Hall Art Foundation—includes Étroits sont les Vaisseaux (Narrow are the Vessels) (2002), an 82-foot long, undulating wave-like sculpture made of cast concrete, exposed rebar, and lead; The Women of the Revolution (Les Femmes de la Revolution) (1992), comprised of more than twenty lead beds with photographs and wall text; Velimir Chlebnikov (2004), a steel pavilion containing 30 paintings dealing with nautical warfare and inspired by the quixotic theories of the Russian mathematical experimentalist Velimir Chlebnikov; and a new, large-format photograph on lead created by the artist for the installation at MASS MoCA.
https://massmoca.org/event/anselm-kiefer/ 


	Alison Pebworth Cultural Apothecary
	THROUGH SEP 7 2026
	B6: The Robert W. Wilson Building 
	For more than a decade, Pebworth has been inspired by a 19th-century neurological disorder called Americanitis. With vague and capacious symptoms ranging from abnormal fatigue to premature baldness, a diagnosis of Americanitis essentially pathologized the anxiety and ennui that plagued many Americans in the wake of industrialization and urbanization. Pebworth’s Cultural Apothecary asks us to consider the root causes of the cultural ills that contribute to our anxiety today, and to work together towards tools for healing. Her installation at MASS MoCA offers an experimental space for embodied, in-person connection, curiosity, and exploration as an antidote to division, loneliness, and isolation.
https://massmoca.org/event/alison-pebworth-cultural-apothecary/ 


	Jeffrey Gibson Power Full Because We’re Different
	THROUGH SEP 7 2026
Building 5
Jeffrey Gibson’s POWER FULL BECAUSE WE’RE DIFFERENT is a newly commissioned immersive installation filling MASS MoCA’s signature Building 5 gallery that follows Gibson’s highly celebrated United States representation at the 60th edition of La Biennale di Venezia. Gibson is known for creating installations, performances, paintings, and sculpture that elevate and provide visibility to queer and Indigenous communities, whose cultural narratives have been historically marginalized. Throughout the run of the exhibition, the project will host a series of performances by Indigenous creatives from across North America.
https://massmoca.org/event/jeffrey-gibson-2024/  


	Carly Glovinski Almanac 
	ONGOING
	Hunter Hallway
	Rooted in observation and fueled by a curiosity about the history of objects and handicraft processes, Carly Glovinski makes work that explores the make-do, resourceful attitudes associated with domestic craft and a reverence for nature. The elements of time and place are embedded in work that mines her surrounding coastal New Hampshire and Maine environment for inspiration and looks to the repetitive cycles of seasonal blooms and celestial orbits.
	https://massmoca.org/event/carly-glovinski-almanac/ 


	James Turrell C.A.V.U.
	ONGOING
	Thirty years in the making, James Turrell’s largest free-standing circular Skyspace in North America — titled C.A.V.U. — measures 40 feet in diameter and 40 feet high. This repurposed concrete water tank transforms into one of Turrell’s signature immersive light installations, carving out a small piece of the sky and framing it as a canvas with infinite depth. C.A.V.U. joins the exhibition Into the Light, a long-term retrospective of Turrell’s work that currently includes nine light installations, making MASS MoCA the only North American institution offering a comprehensive overview of the artist’s career.
	https://massmoca.org/event/james-turrell-cavu/ 

	
	Gunnar Schonbeck No Experience Required
	ONGOING
	MASS MoCA
	Over a period of fifty years, Gunnar Schonbeck assembled a collection of hundreds of instruments, handmade from a diverse and unexpected range of materials. His unmistakable works include a 9-ft banjo, 8-ft tall marimba, drums made from aircraft fuselages, welded steel harps and countless steel drums, zithers, pan pipes, tubular chimes, and triangular cellos. His practice drew on a core philosophy: anyone can be a musician, and music can be made from the most ordinary of objects.
	https://massmoca.org/event/gunnar-schonbeck/ 


	Nicholas Whitman 
	ONGOING
	B6: The Robert W. Wilson Building 
	Photographer Nicholas Whitman began photographing North Adams’ abandoned Sprague Electric Company factory in 1988 “because it would surely be razed.” Documenting the then-deteriorating 19th-century mill buildings, Whitman captured scenes ranging from vast postindustrial landscapes to minute traces of the plant’s former workers. Whitman’s meticulously composed photographs, windows onto the historic nature of MASS MoCA’s celebrated renovated factory campus, are now on view in the museum.
https://massmoca.org/event/nicholas-whitman/ 


	Sarah Oppenheimer S-334473
	ONGOING
	MASS MoCA
	Sarah Oppenheimer creates precise instruments for manipulating our built environment–altering our frame of spatial reference, displacing our experience of inside and out, and inverting our sense of what is near and far, here and there.
	https://massmoca.org/event/sarah-oppenheimer-s-334473/ 


	Martin Puryear Big Bling 
	ONGOING
	MASS MoCA
	Martin Puryear’s monumental sculpture Big Bling has landed for at least the next five years at MASS MoCA. Sited at the museum’s extreme southern perimeter in the heart of the downtown North Adams, Massachusetts business district, the sculpture creates a dramatic new connection between MASS MoCA’s 16-acre, 28-building factory campus and the city’s Main Street business district.
	https://massmoca.org/event/martin-puryear-big-bling/ 


	Sol LeWitt A Wall Drawing Retrospective 
	THROUGH 2043
	Sol LeWitt
	Sol LeWitt: A Wall Drawing Retrospective occupies nearly an acre of specially built interior walls that are installed—per LeWitt’s own specifications—over three stories of a historic mill building situated at the heart of MASS MoCA’s 19th-century, former factory campus. A landmark collaboration of MASS MoCA, Yale University Art Gallery, the Williams College Museum of Art, and the Sol Lewitt estate, over 60 artists and art students spent six months rendering 105 large-scale wall drawings spanning the artist’s storied career.
	https://massmoca.org/event/sol-lewitt-a-wall-drawing-retrospective/ 


	James Turrell Into the Light 
	ONGOING
	B6: The Robert W. Wilson Building
	In James Turrell’s hands, light is more than simply a source of illumination: it is a discrete, physical object. His sculptures and architectural interventions elevate our experience and perception of light and space. Squares of sky seem to float, suspended, in ceilings or walls; architecture disintegrates; and brilliant geometric shapes levitate in midair. 
Turrell began using light as a sculptural medium in 1966, painting the windows of his studio in Santa Monica to seal off the natural light and experimenting with projections. His practice has been shaped by the ongoing manipulation of architecture, framing and altering the way viewers engage with the environment. A pioneer in the Southern California Light and Space movement, MASS MoCA presents a multi-decade retrospective of Turrell’s work in B6: The Robert W. Wilson Building — with galleries designed and constructed specially to best accentuate his installations.
	https://massmoca.org/event/james-turrell/ 

	
	Allovers
	ONGOING
	MASS MoCA
	Musician and sound artist Ryan Olson teams with producer and sound artist Seth Rosetter to convert the stairs and basement of MASS MoCA’s Building 10 into a musical instrument. Allovers is “played” by stimuli from its surrounding environment, from snippets of conversation and footfalls, to the rattle of carts and deliberate acts of musical intervention.
Visitors will encounter the installation as they enter the basement from the museum’s lobby. Allovers provides back-line beats — overdubs, harmonic tones, and melodies — with musical motivation to the “band” provided by visitors. An analog knob and dial, on the panel mounted on the wall facing the windows, invites visitors to alter the compositional algorithm, shifting between an array of musical atmospheres, from ambient fuzz to hard-party modes.
	https://massmoca.org/event/allovers/ 


	Laurie Anderson 
	ONGOING
	MASS MoCA
	Laurie Anderson is one of America’s most reknowned – and daring – creative pioneers. Known primarily for her multimedia presentations, she has cast herself in roles as varied as visual artist, composer, poet, photographer, filmmaker, electronics whiz, vocalist, and instrumentalist. Her seemingly boundless oeuvre includes the creation of books, albums, and performances that incorporate film, slides, recorded audio, live music, and spoken word. 

Anderson has long been recognized as a groundbreaking leader in the use of technology in the arts and has developed new musical instruments, including the tape bow violin, in which the bow has been replaced with magnetic audiotape and the bridge with a reader. She was one of MASS MoCA’s first artists-in-residence and has returned to the museum many times to develop and discuss works-in-progress.
	https://massmoca.org/event/laurie-anderson/ 


	Louise Bourgeois 
	THROUGH 2027
	MASS MoCA
	Louise Bourgeois described her artistic practice as an attempt to work through whatever tumult plagued her — psychologically, personally, artistically — to find perfect harmony. Her work often references human anatomy and sexuality, in some instances overtly and in others more subtlely through organic and ambiguous forms. Her oeuvre encompassed drawings, paintings, textiles, embroidered works, sculpture, and installations ranging in scale from a few inches to fully immersive environments. Bourgeois began working with marble in the early 1960s while living in Avenza, Italy, and the medium proved particularly compelling for the artist — its resilience and difficulty pushing her creative boundaries. For B6: The Robert W. Wilson Building, MASS MoCA, in partnership with the Louise Bourgeois Trust, presents a group of the artist’s marble sculptures, some of which have never been seen previously in the United States. The works fluctuate between the whimsical and the grotesque, the threatening and the nurturing, highlighting Bourgeois’ investigations of the polarities of the emotions that were her subjects. The installation also speaks to the artist’s ease with both intimate pieces and works of monumental scale, with one sculpture weighing in at 15 tons. The design of the gallery that houses these works in the Robert W. Wilson Building was constructed specifically to hold the enormous weight.
	https://massmoca.org/event/louise-bourgeois/ 


	Spencer Finch Cosmic Latte
	ONGOING
	MASS MoCA
	Spencer Finch, the subject of a major mid-career survey at MASS MoCA in 2007 titled What Time is it on the Sun?, returns to the museum with a long-term installation commissioned and designed in conjunction with MASS MoCA’s Phase III expansion. Bringing the starry night inside the museum, Finch’s light-based work, Cosmic Latte features over 150 specially fabricated LED fixtures suspended from the ceiling over an expanse of the 80-foot long gallery. The constellation of LEDs are arranged in the gently arching shape of the Milky Way as it is observed in the Northern Hemisphere in March. The work’s title, Cosmic Latte, refers to the name of the average color of the universe, which in 2009 was determined to be more beige than what has been traditionally thought of as blue. Two American astrophysicists studied the color of the light emitted by 200,000 galaxies and created a cosmic spectrum, which they then blended according to the light spectrum visible to human eyes. Finch represents that specific warm, yellowish-white shade of light with LED lights (designed to look like incandescent bulbs), which are then arranged in the shape of the molecular models of the pigments needed to create this “cosmic latte” color: titanium white, Mars yellow, chrome yellow, and a touch of cadmium red.
	​​https://massmoca.org/event/spencer-finch-cosmic-latte/ 
	

	Micah Lexier A Coin in the Corner 
	ONGOING
	MASS MoCA
	A Coin in the Corner is an installation of 100 special-edition minted coins by Toronto-based artist Micah Lexier. Originally commissioned as part of MASS MoCA’s 2012 exhibition Oh, Canada, each coin contains a simple line drawing of a coin in a corner. Lexier’s work is a clever pun for bilingual Canada, for the word corner in French translates to coin. Lexier placed 100 coins in corners throughout the whole of MASS MoCA, in exhibition spaces, the café, offices, basements, bathrooms, and even areas not accessible to the public. So, thinking of both the coin’s placement and the French translation, Lexier’s work really becomes a coin in the corner where the corner is the coin.
	https://massmoca.org/event/micah-lexier-a-coin-in-the-corner/ 


	Sarah Crowner Wall (Hot Blue Terra Cotta)
	ONGOING 
	MASS MoCA
	Sarah Crowner’s gorgeous 10 × 20 foot tile mural Wall (Hot Blue Terra Cotta) — fabricated for her 2016 MASS MoCA exhibition — now guides visitors in and out of the museum’s new gallery spaces. Known for her bold and graphic work in a variety of mediums spanning the fine and applied arts, Crowner finds the forms and patterns of abstraction in the everyday. Her monumental structure transforms painting into architecture (and vice versa), with the imperfections and eccentricities of the hand-glazed tiles functioning like a painter’s gestures.
	https://massmoca.org/event/sarah-crowner-wall-hot-blue-terracotta/ 


	Barbara Ernst Prey Building 6 Portrait: Interior 
	ONGOING
	MASS MoCA
	Renowned watercolor artist Barbara Ernst Prey paints a monumental watercolor for MASS MoCA’s expansion. Prey’s work is 9 feet tall by 16 feet wide and depicts the interior of B6: The Robert W. Wilson Building just prior to the start of construction.
	https://massmoca.org/event/barbara-prey-building-6-portrait/ 


	Joe Manning: Looking at North Adams
	ONGOING
	MASS MoCA
	Author and historian Joe Manning speaks to life in and around this city — referencing the trains, hills, rivers, and buildings that shape life in North Adams. Manning’s short texts, describing and illuminating the views through mill building windows throughout the museum, are excerpted from his publications about North Adams history and drawn from oral histories of city residents. Manning’s “city labels” speak to life in North Adams, including the retail scene on Main Street and what it was like to grow up in North Adams in the mid-1900s.
	https://massmoca.org/event/joe-manning-looking-at-north-adams/ 


	Julianne Swartz In Harmonicity, The Tonal Walkway 
	ONGOING
	MASS MoCA
	Julianne Swartz’s work is rooted in emotion, vulnerability, and the provocation to recognize and connect to one another as feeling human beings. Over the years Swartz has returned again and again to using the human voice, recording singers both professional and amateur to create moving works that embrace visitors with sound and emotion.
	https://massmoca.org/event/julianne-swartz-in-harmonicity-the-tonal-walkway/ 


	Joe Wardwell Hello America: 40 Hits from the 50 States
	ONGOING 
	MASS MoCA
	Boston-based artist Joe Wardwell’s Hello America: 40 Hits from the 50 States, a new wall drawing for MASS MoCA, takes inspiration from J.G. Ballard’s 1981 novel Hello America. The book begins after an energy crisis in the late 20th century that leaves America all but abandoned. A century later a group of European explorers finds a radically changed country, a desert landscape parched by the damming of the Bering Strait. The expedition starts in Manhattan and ends in Las Vegas where a tyrannical leader has named himself both Charles Manson and President of the United States. The moment that inspired Wardwell, and seemed like an all-too-eerie nod to our current political climate, comes when “President Manson” grabs the primary protagonist, who is filled with longing for a far-too-distant “American dream” and declares “together, Wayne, we will make America great again!”
	https://massmoca.org/event/joe-wardwell-hello-america/ 


	Don Gummer Primary Separation
	ONGOING
	MASS MoCA
	Primary Separation was first designed by the artist Donald Gummer in 1969 in a small model, and was realized here at full scale in 2006. 
The sculpture consists of a massive granite boulder, 12 feet long by 6 feet tall, sawed in half. The stone halves—separated by an 11-inch gap—are suspended 10 feet above ground, within a system of stainless steel supports and cables. Gummer’s original inspiration for Separation was a stone that reminded him of Brancusi’s sculpture, Fish. In using the stone, Gummer had Duchamp’s ready-mades in mind, but substituting for Duchamp’s man-made objects an object found in nature.
	https://massmoca.org/event/don-gummer-primary-separation/ 


	Victoria Palermo Bus Stand
	ONGOING
	Offsite
	The Bus Stand, designed by artist Victoria Palermo, is a public artwork and permanent addition to the North Adams community, adding to the movement to bring more public art to the city through the efforts of DownStreet Art. Palermo, of Queensbury, New York, is a visiting assistant professor of Art at Skidmore College. Her work has been exhibited in many galleries and museums, including Kidspace at MASS MoCA in 2003-2004 and 2010. Recently, her work has been shown at the Hyde Collection, Glens Falls, NY; Salem Art Works, Salem, NY; and Union College, Schenectady, NY.
	https://massmoca.org/event/victoria-palermo-bus-stand/ 



                                                                                            
  - Arkansas:
Crystal Bridges    
General museum link: https://crystalbridges.org/ 
Ticket link: https://crystalbridges.org/plan-a-visit/ 
Admissions info: Free General Admission (for special exhibitions and events, book tickets on the website)
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://crystalbridges.org/calendar/?event-category=exhibition%2Cexperience 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL 

	The Art of Birdwatching with Susan Morrison
	FEB 21 2026 - SEP 14 2026
	Bridge Gallery, Box A
	Birdwatching has been a treasured American pastime for centuries. For the casual observer or the expert tracker, the activity centers on paying close attention to the world around us. Just noticing a flash of color, a snippet of song, and the flap of a wing can lead to extraordinary discoveries, from identifying new species to simply beholding the miracle of flight.
Susan Morrison (1942–2023) modeled this practice throughout her life. As an artist based in Eureka Springs, Arkansas, she devoted her work to wildlife and its preservation. The drawings, books, and educational programs she created all began with a deep appreciation for nature and a desire to share her vision with others.
This exhibition presents a selection of Morrison’s artwork—with a special focus on birds—alongside that of her contemporaries and predecessors. Not every artist featured here sought to encourage environmental conservation the way Morrison did, but in every encounter with the animals they depict, we find opportunities for delight and wonder.
	https://crystalbridges.org/calendar/the-art-of-birdwatching-with-susan-morrison/ 

	Visions of America 
	ONGOING
	Visions of America Gallery
	Located in the former Early American galleries, the Visions of America Galleries feature a core experience designed to inspire curiosity and offer a high-level introduction to five centuries of American art through the Crystal Bridges collection.  	
Organized into five thematic sections, We, Dreaming, Nature, Making Our Mark, and We the People, the Visions of America Galleries take guests on a journey reflecting on American people, the power of dreaming and artistic imagination, our relationships with nature and its materials, the objects that shape our spaces and cultures, and the unfolding story of America. The reimagined galleries go beyond traditional art history to create an immersive, interactive experience of art, artists, and their stories.
	https://crystalbridges.org/calendar/visions-of-america/ 
	
	America 250: Common Threads
	MAR 14 2026 - JUL 27 2026
	Temporary Exhibition Gallery
	In 2026, the United States will mark 250 years since the signing of the Declaration of Independence. America 250: Common Threads will both commemorate the events of 1776 and reflect on 250 years of American art and civic participation. An early engraving of the Declaration of Independence will anchor a group of historic documents displayed alongside textiles, paintings, toys, and other works from 1776 to the present. The exhibition considers how artists and national leaders document American history. America 250: Common Threads explores how American artists historically foster civic participation and strengthen community relationships.  	
Visitors will experience how people have celebrated national and personal moments in history, from a display of hundreds of 20th century patriotic snapshots to souvenirs collected from America’s Centennial in 1876. The exhibition explores the symbols artists turn to when celebrating or commenting on the United States: George Washington’s many faces, eagles appearing across books, baskets, and coverlets, flags seen as quilts or as documentation of the moon landing, and more. Contemporary artists featured in the exhibition, such as Robert Colescott, Kay WalkingStick, and Howard Finster, continue to revisit national symbols and explore their resonance.  
	https://crystalbridges.org/calendar/america-250-common-threads/ 
	



                                                                                
  - Miami: 
PAMM 
General museum link: https://www.pamm.org/en/exhibitions/?utm_source=Google&utm_medium=Keywords&utm_campaign=PAMM&gad_source=1&gad_campaignid=2030540398&gbraid=0AAAAADOyRG1rqb9rBmhrbFL9cA5pnwiU9&gclid=CjwKCAjwwJzPBhBREiwAJfHRnQ3SvspTLE1c4Nznmv7Xnj3TE2fsuKMPKcPQm6IqcHzM1yCrDpUlxhoC_CQQAvD_BwE 
Ticket link: https://6883.blackbaudhosting.com/6883/page.aspx?pid=196&tab=2&txobjid=2a61ce68-2a24-4798-b6fc-c8309ce5ddd7 
Admissions info:
General admission tickets include entry to all exhibitions between 11am–5pm. 
Admission to PAMM is free from 5–9pm every Thursday evening, and those general admission tickets are located in a separate time slot. Last entry is 30 minutes prior to closing daily. 
Tickets are made available a month in advance. If the date you plan on visiting is not available, please check back within four weeks of your visit.
Tickets are made available a month in advance. If the date you plan on visiting is not available, please check back within four weeks of your visit. 
Adult
$18.00
Senior (62+ with ID)
$14.00
Student (with ID)
$14.00
Youth 7-18
$14.00
Child 0-6
$0.00
Member Adult (discount applied with member login)
$18.00
Member Senior 62+ (discount applied with member login)
$14.00
Member Youth 7-18 (discount applied with member login)
$14.00
Healthcare Professionals and First Responders (with ID)
$0.00
Active US Military and Veterans (with ID)
$0.00
Florida Educator (with ID)
$0.00
Visitors Identifying as Disabled, and Their Accompanying Caregiver
$0.00
Student Pass Program- Student Ticket
$14.00
Student Pass Program- Adult Chaperone Ticket
$18.00

Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://www.pamm.org/en/exhibitions/ 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL  

	Get in the Game: Sports, Art, Culture 
	MAR 19 2026 - AUG 23 2026
	Get in the Game: Sports, Art, Culture explores the dynamic interplay between athletic performance and artistic expression. Coinciding with major international sporting events taking place in Miami—the Miami Open, the Formula 1 Grand Prix, and the FIFA World Cup, the exhibition positions Pérez Art Museum Miami (PAMM) as a site where global audiences converge to reflect on the cultural impact of sport. In a city shaped by exchange and diversity, the exhibition underscores how games and competitions create common ground across traditions, identities, and rivalries.
Featuring more than 100 works by artists from around the world—including highlights from PAMM’s collection—Get in the Game demonstrates how sport has inspired both personal expression and shared cultural memory. Visitors encounter Ernie Barnes’s soulful depictions of neighborhood basketball games, Douglas Gordon and Philippe Parreno’s cinematic meditation that follows French soccer star Zinedine Zidane’s in real time over the course of a match, and Tara Mateik’s reenactment of the historic 1973 “Battle of the Sexes” tennis match between Billie Jean King and Bobby Riggs. Artworks are presented alongside historic sports memorabilia—from 1970s Nike sneakers to original McLaren Racing steering wheels—revealing the intertwined histories of creativity, athleticism, and spectacle.
	https://www.pamm.org/en/exhibition/get-in-the-game-sports-art-culture/ 

	Shadows and Traces: Selections from PAMM’s Collection
	OCT 16 2025 - JUN 7 2026
	This exhibition brings together women artists from PAMM’s collection who work in photography and printmaking to reflect on memory and the subtle imprints left by lived experiences. The title suggests the dual nature of these practices: shadows as echoes captured through the camera’s lens, and traces the physical impressions made visible through printmaking. 
Through staged photographs and intricate print processes, the artists explore how personal and collective histories can be at once fleeting and enduring. Their works reveal unseen layers of identity, absence, and the emotional landscapes that persist in everyday life. Shadows and Traces thus becomes a meditation on how images and impressions allow us to perceive the intangible marks of experience, offering a quiet but resonant reflection on the ways these artists document their worlds.
https://www.pamm.org/en/exhibition/shadows-and-traces-selections-from-pamms-collection/ 

	Woody De Othello: coming forth by day
	NOV 13 2025 - JUN 28 2026
	Miami-born artist Woody De Othello presents coming forth by day, a new series of ceramic and wood sculptures, tiled wall works, and a large-scale bronze that explore the primordial relationship between body, earth, and spirit. The immersive installation will feature grounding natural materials such as clay-painted walls and subtle herbal scents.	
Rooted in precolonial and diasporic African traditions, Othello draws inspiration from spiritual practices, hermetic philosophy, and cultural artifacts—including nkisi power figures, Dogon ritual objects, and Egyptian pyramids. His anthropomorphic sculptures, with their richly glazed surfaces, suggest a quiet vitality—the forms appear to lean, rest, or embrace, as if shaped by the weight of memory and emotion.
	https://www.pamm.org/en/exhibition/woody-de-othello-coming-forth-by-day/ 

	Fragments of Time: Selections from PAMM’s Collection 
	JUL 23 2025 - JUL 27 2026
	Memory serves as the bridge between life’s fleeting moments and our ongoing formation of a sense of self—shaping our identity and anchoring us to the past. In the constant interplay of remembering and forgetting, life becomes a series of fragmented recollections that define how we exist in time and how we confront the inevitability of death.
Fragments of Time: Selections from PAMM’s Collection draws on video works from the museum’s permanent collection to explore how artists reflect on the passage of time, the nature of memory, and humanity’s enduring search for life’s meaning. Through works that address reflection, loss, transformation, and the evolution of personal and collective memory, the exhibition considers how moments—both remembered and forgotten—shape our understanding of ourselves.
https://www.pamm.org/en/exhibition/fragments-of-time-selections-from-pamms-collection/ 

	Carlos Cruz-Diez: Chromosaturation 
	OCT 2 2025 - SEP 27 2026
	Carlos Cruz-Diez (b. 1923, Caracas; d. 2019, Paris) is a central figure in the history of late 20th-century art. His investigations into the ephemeral and ever-changing nature of color positioned him as a pioneer of kinetic and Op art. Through his experimental use of light, movement, space, and viewer participation, Cruz-Diez challenged static notions of visual art, encouraging what he described as “an awareness of the instability of reality” and advancing a new vision of art as an active, perceptual encounter.
	https://www.pamm.org/en/exhibition/carlos-cruz-diez-chromosaturation-2/ 

	Cecilia Vicuña: Quipu Gut
	AUG 29 2024 - NOV 1 2026
	Cecilia Vicuña is a poet and artist who grew up in the Chilean commune of La Florida, in the Maipo Valley. Born to a family of artists and intellectuals, Vicuña grew up hearing about the persecution and incarceration of individuals who struggled for social justice in the wake of increasingly conservative government agendas. While attending the Slade School of Fine Art in London on a British Council Award in 1972–73, a coup d’état led by General Augusto Pinochet, commander-in-chief of the Chilean army, ushered in a seventeen-year military dictatorship. This led Vicuña to remain in London on a self-imposed exile, where she exhibited her work at the Institute of Contemporary Arts and published her first book, Saborami (1973). At the time, she was largely focused on political activism directed against fascism and human rights violations in Chile and other countries. 
	https://www.pamm.org/en/exhibition/cecilia-vicuna-quipu-gut/ 
	

	One Becomes Many 
	OCT 17 2024 - MAR 21 2027
	One Becomes Many explores the enduring legacies that transcend generations in the works of eleven Black Brazilian artists. Through traditional motifs, geometric abstractions, and a deep reverence for Brazilian culture, these artists offer glimpses into a world where resilience is not merely a trait but a sacred inheritance.
Central to the exhibition is candomblé—the Afro-Brazilian religion that draws on traditions of West African ethnic groups such as the Yoruba, Fon, and Bantu, as well as some aspects Roman Catholicism. Inspired by ritual practices, these artists pay homage to deities and ancestral spirits, exuding divine potency and wisdom in their works. The reimagined symbolic imagery from candomblé serves as a visual testament to the strength of a people who have endured, persisted, and thrived.	
Themes of the diaspora also resonate deeply in this collection of works, reflecting the artists’ shared experiences of displacement, survival, and cultural continuity. Through narratives concerning identity and belonging, artists juxtapose complexities of history with contemporary realities of Afro-Brazilian communities. One Becomes Many invites viewers on a journey in which the past intertwines with the present and the echoes of ancestral wisdom guide us toward a future illuminated by what endures.
	https://www.pamm.org/en/exhibition/one-becomes-many/ 
	
	
	


Sculpture Garden
	ONGOING
	Featuring works by artists such as Anthony Caro, Gonzálo Fonseca, Edgar Negret, Ernesto Neto, Jedd Novatt, Pablo Atchugarry and Mark di Suvero, PAMM’s Sculpture Garden displays large-scale sculptures that can be enjoyed in the open air.
	https://www.pamm.org/en/exhibition/sculpture-garden/ 

	Permanent Collection
	ONGOING
	Pérez Art Museum Miami has proudly served as this city’s flagship visual art institution for over 35 years. Our origins date back to 1984 with the founding of the Center for Fine Arts (CFA). Located in downtown Miami, the CFA was strictly an exhibiting venue, presenting temporary exhibitions but without a permanent collection of its own. A decade later, between 1994 and 1996, the organization took a dramatic step forward, transforming into the Miami Art Museum, a collecting institution dedicated to the acquisition and preservation of 20th- and 21st-century art. In 2013—on the eve of its move into the spectacular Herzog and de Meuron–designed building it inhabits today—the institution evolved again, becoming the Jorge M. Pérez Art Museum of Miami-Dade County (PAMM).
Following 25 years of effort, and thanks to the generosity of hundreds of supporters, the museum’s collection has grown to encompass nearly 3,000 works of art, a selection of which is currently on view in eight galleries spread throughout the building—two on the first floor and six on the second floor. With a strong emphasis on art that relates to the US Latinx experience, the African diaspora, Latin America, and the Caribbean, the Pérez draws its inspiration in this endeavor from Miami’s rich cultural diversity and unique position at the crossroads of the Americas. Alongside a vigorous lineup of temporary exhibitions, special events, and educational programs, these permanent holdings testify to PAMM’s ambition to provide enriching experiences with great art for the benefit of current and future generations.
	https://www.pamm.org/en/exhibition/permanent-collection/ 

	Beyond Representation
	ONGOING
	This long-term research and exhibition project investigates a broad range of performance and performative practices by artists from the Caribbean or of Caribbean descent working on in the region or its diasporas. It features an intergenerational group of artists—from pioneers in the field to emerging artists—who employ the body or rely on bodily experience and live action to critically engage with the social, political and cultural reality in their respective contexts. Focusing on process, and examining the relationship with space, matter or other media, as well as frequently relying on audience interaction and participation, the performance artists highlighted in this project create work that redefine traditional art-making practices, while often proposing renewed narratives of healing and freedom. Approached from a transnational perspective, this ongoing project seeks to enable new thinking about the critical commonalities and differences across heterogeneous and geographically dispersed performance art practices.	
Beyond Representation unfolds through a series of live art events that will be contextualized and discussed through interviews or essays that will be published in CCI Forum. Additionally, the project will also comprise a series of video-performances and/or documentation of performances by artists from the Caribbean or Caribbean heritage presented in PAMMTV. Exploring performance in relation to digital media will enable a broader understanding of the multifaceted and rich array of performative practices that have emerged in the Caribbean and its diasporas in recent decades.
	https://www.pamm.org/en/exhibition/beyond-representation/ 

	
                                                                                                
  - Bay Area: 
San Jose Museum of Art  
General museum link: https://sjmusart.org/exhibitions-on-view?utm_source=google&utm_campaign=16411687616&utm_content=198806007108&utm_term=san%20jose%20museum%20of%20art&utm_medium=788768268217&gad_source=1&gad_campaignid=16411687616&gbraid=0AAAAAoKxQjVtqxFzt0cGQQ8cMhKCy4iBk&gclid=CjwKCAjwwJzPBhBREiwAJfHRnR-E4GIuExUA9lUhik9ppZ4r876t_UKrqWcSqxaOOzb2qSPr2N8RqRoC0YgQAvD_BwE 
Ticket link: https://52102.blackbaudhosting.com/52102/tickets?tab=3&txobjid=1b87ef14-b89d-4a5c-803f-79124cc2bcd8 
Admissions info:
	Adult $20
	Senior (65+) $15
	College Student (w/ID) $0
	Youth (7-17yrs) $0
	Child (6 and younger) $0
	Members $0
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://sjmusart.org/exhibitions-on-view 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL 

	Christine Howard Sandoval: Move the Plot 
APR 10 2026 - OCT 18 2026 
Working with land-based materials, Christine Howard Sandoval excavates the knowledge systems and histories that lie dormant in archives, architecture, and the land itself. Move the Plot debuts Howard Sandoval’s newest body of work, a study of the layered histories present in Bay Area and Central Valley wetlands. With adobe forms, dyes made from local medicinal plants, and modular steel structures, it puts archival traces of Indigenous resistance and knowledge in tension with the modern engineering technologies that continue to transform California’s marshes.
https://sjmusart.org/exhibition/christine-howard-sandoval-move-plot 
	
	
Motherboards
	APR 10 2026 - JAN 10 2027
	Motherboards explores the foundational contributions of women’s work to the technology industry. From the first human computers and programmers, to the women working at electronics factories in Silicon Valley and beyond, to today’s global network of ghost workers, women have been deeply involved with the technologies that undergird our daily lives. Yet their contributions are often left out of official histories of technology.
Featuring artists from California and beyond, the exhibition maps an extensive network of women’s work in technology, connecting Silicon Valley’s laboratories and garages to vital work performed at looms, desks, kitchens, and assembly lines across the globe. Motherboards features installations, videos, textiles, and more by Sarah Buckius, Tania Candiani, Priyageetha Dia, Rhonda Holberton, Charlotte Johannesson, Ahree Lee, Amor Muñoz, Hương Ngô, Mimi Ọnụọha (with Charlene Eigen-Vasquez), Sonya Rapoport, Cara Romero, Sarah Rosalena, Analia Saban, Marilou Schultz, the Superkilogirls (Camila Galaz, Ana Meisel, and Lua Vollaard), and Mika Tajima, as well as archival objects from the Computer History Museum.
https://sjmusart.org/exhibition/motherboards 

	ektor garcia: loose ends 
	OCT 17 2025 - JUN 7 2026
	In a materials-based practice that draws on handcraft traditions and a DIY sensibility, ektor garcia subtly challenges hierarchies ​of​ gendered and racialized labor while undermining notions of static identity. ​He draws from a​ ​unique ​vocabulary of materials—copper wire, cast metals, glass, clay, horsehair, seashells, and leather—​which he​ w​ea​ve​s​, knot​s​, and crochet​s​​ into objects​ at once​ vulnerable and resistant, soft and hard. ​He begins e​ach piece with a single gesture or stitch, ​which he ​repeat​s​ over countless hours to ​create​ long chains, textiles, nets, and altar-like accumulations. Such works are shaped by the artist’s responsiveness to materials, environmental and social context​s​, and the intuitive inattention that develops with manual repetition. As sculptures​,​ they ​are​ quiet but restless​—​psychologically and politically charged in their ​misleading ​delicacy and susceptibility to transformation.
Records of time and labor, garcia’s creations are only ever paused in their growth, never complete. The artist is ​also ​known to undo previously exhibited objects, reshaping and gathering them into ​new​ constellations. ​Through​​ ​his​ ​practice, ​he​ opens up​ new​ possibilities for making and knowing that are constantly engaged in a process of unraveling and reworking, learning and quiet change.
	https://sjmusart.org/exhibition/ektor-garcia-loose-ends 

	
Koret Gallery: Art Learning Lab 
	ONGOING
	Art Learning Lab is a dedicated exhibition space inspired by Sowing Creativity, the Museum’s award-winning STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Art and Math) education program. Featuring a diverse selection of work from the permanent collection, the Art Learning Lab reveals how artists engage cross-disciplinary concepts in their approach to art-making.
Through interactive play and experimentation, visitors are encouraged to draw their own connections between individual creative exploration and the ideas, tools, and techniques used in the artwork on display.
	https://sjmusart.org/exhibition/koret-gallery-art-learning-lab 


	Pae White: Noisy Blushes 
	ONGOING Installation
	Pae White’s Noisy Blushes (2020) is a meditation on movement and time, light and color, material presence and the elusiveness of form. Commissioned by SJMA, this site-specific sculpture soars within the Museum’s thirty-foot high atrium and transforms its entrance into an experiential passageway, delivering a sublime experience for visitors. Comprising 12,000 silkscreened, electroplated and polished stainless-steel hexagonal disks arranged into the sphere and suspended from 504 custom-colored cables, Noisy Blushes is suspended behind a glass façade, allowing it to scatter millions of reflections throughout the Museum’s spacious Harold Witkin Convocation Area and Frank L. and Edna E. Di Napoli Skybridge Gallery. Suspended between SJMA’s 19th-century historic wing and modern addition, the sculpture links the outside with the inside, the past with the present while its colors and design fluctuate with the time of day, the seasons, and as the viewer changes their vantage point.
	https://sjmusart.org/exhibition/pae-white-noisy-blushes 


	Tending and Dreaming: Stories from the Collection 
	ONGOING Exhibition
	Tending and Dreaming: Stories from the Collection launches the first dedicated collection galleries at the Museum. Providing unprecedented access to core works in San José’s only publicly held art collection, the Museum invites a deeper sense of community pride in the collection. 
Initiated in 1973 under the guidance of San José artists, SJMA’s collection has grown to reflect our international point of convergence, where dynamic cultural diversity and high-tech industries mix in California soil. SJMA’s collection galleries position artists as storytellers to imagine the Museum as a space where culture and meaning are actively made and always in process. Organized into thematic groupings, Tending and Dreaming offers poetic starting points for engaging with ideas woven through the works of almost fifty artists from the Bay Area and beyond, including Ruth Asawa, Martha Atienza, Shilpa Gupta, Yolanda López, and Elias Sime, among many others.
	https://sjmusart.org/exhibition/tending-and-dreaming-stories-collection 
	
	
Huma Bhabha’s Receiver 
	ONGOING Installation
	Receiver is a phantasmal giant. The figure’s head suggests a robot or alien from a Hollywood movie, its chiseled smile characteristic of Greek statues of the Archaic period. It is androgynous and two-faced (recalling Buddhist, Hindu, and Jain religious sculpture), with one set of arms clutched to the chest like a Mesopotamian votive figure that pays homage to a deity. Receiver’s toes are painted with pink polish. 
By looking back and forward in time and far beyond the western art historical canon in her references, Bhabha creates a unique blend of speculative fiction. Receiver’s rough, seemingly eroded texture and two-tone coloring reflect the original sculptural model’s material juxtaposition of cork and Styrofoam. By being cast in bronze, Receiver is in dialogue with western traditions of figurative monuments that define heroes and shape history. Scarred, cut, and looming, Bhabha’s dignified figure reflects the centuries of violence written on the human body and its resilience despite such trauma. As a monument it questions the notion of the “alien,” standing in testament to the dignity and strength of the discarded, forgotten, and unseen.
	https://sjmusart.org/exhibition/huma-bhabhas-receiver 



Kelly Akashi’s Cultivator
	ONGOING Installation
	This monumental bronze was cast from the artist’s own hand—complete with details of cuticles, fingernails, and creases—as a record of her slowly changing body. Rising from a planter filled with native plants, the hand’s fingers gently support an array of oversized glass-blown flowers modeled after endangered California species, including Presidio clarkia and threadleaf brodiaea. Within Akashi’s practice, the materials of bronze and glass are prized for their alchemical potential in shifting from liquid to solid states, a transformative possibility that resonates with the more visible changes to plants and human bodies over time. Materially and conceptually, Cultivator speaks to the intertwined, interdependent futures of humans and the world that surrounds us. It is a monument to intentional care and responsibility toward others, an entreaty to cultivate rather than destroy.
	https://sjmusart.org/exhibition/kelly-akashis-cultivator 



                                                                           
  - LA: 
Hammer Museum
General museum link: https://hammer.ucla.edu/ 
Ticket link: https://hammer.ucla.edu/visit 
Admissions info: Free General Admission and advanced reservations are not necessary 
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://hammer.ucla.edu/exhibitions/on-view 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL  

	Several Eternities in a Day: Form in the Age of Living Materials 
	APR 5 2026 - AUG 23 2026
	Several Eternities in a Day: Form in the Age of Living Materials features twenty-two artists from North, Central, and South America who embrace the unpredictable nature of living materials. These artists use materials such as avocado, cacao, achiote, cochineal, stone, clay, and natural dyes to create large-scale installations, paintings, works on paper, and mixed-media sculpture. Each of these materials is alive—they evolve, decay, drip, crumble, and evaporate. They are rooted in the spirit, memory, and knowledge of Brown and Indigenous worlds. The exhibition considers ideas around materials as records of the living and repositories of cosmic memory, organic decay and transformation.
https://hammer.ucla.edu/exhibitions/2026/several-eternities-day-form-age-living-materials 

	SPACE IS THE PLACE: Selections from the Hammer Contemporary Collection
	APR 5 2026 - SEP 6 2026 
	SPACE IS THE PLACE is a Hammer Contemporary Collection exhibition that takes its title from the 1973 studio album and 1974 film by Sun Ra (1914–1993), a Black American experimental jazz composer and musician known for his radical and esoteric views on Black liberation. The selected works in the exhibition consider “space” as a conceptual framework, through the themes of afro-futurism, belonging, placemaking, and the act of taking up space. SPACE IS THE PLACE comprises installations, paintings, sculptures, photographs, and multi-media works by nearly thirty artists. 
https://hammer.ucla.edu/exhibitions/2026/space-place-selections-hammer-contemporary-collection 

	Arthur Jafa: The White Album 
	MAR 14 2026 - AUG 30 2026 
	Arthur Jafa’s 30-minute experimental film The White Album (2018) examines how visual media can transmit the “power, beauty, and alienation” of Black music in American culture. Following his critically acclaimed film Love Is the Message, the Message Is Death (2016), The White Album is a social critique of whiteness. Assembled from found and produced footage, the film collages digital media into a radical visual and literary mixtape that articulates the ways in which the vitality and survival of Black American people—their labor, ideas, and cultural output—are historically co-opted by white culture through coercion and violence.
	https://hammer.ucla.edu/exhibitions/2026/arthur-jafa-white-album 

	Five Centuries of Works on Paper: The Grunwald Center at 70 
	DEC 20 2025 - MAY 17 2026
	Since its establishment in 1956 with a gift of prints from Los Angeles collector Fred Grunwald, the UCLA Grunwald Center for the Graphic Arts has evolved into one of the nation’s foremost collections of works on paper. Over the decades, the Grunwald Center’s holdings have expanded through donations and acquisitions, and now comprise more than 45,000 prints, drawings, photographs, and artists’ books dating from the Renaissance to the present. Housed at the Hammer Museum since 1994, the Grunwald Center fosters learning and discovery through its collection, which is regularly presented in exhibitions and made accessible in its dedicated study room. This exhibition marks the 70th anniversary of the Grunwald Center, celebrating its history through a selection of significant works that reflect the collection’s breadth and diversity.
https://hammer.ucla.edu/exhibitions/2025/five-centuries-works-paper-grunwald-center-70 

	Hammer Projects: Mike Cloud 
	MAR 28 2026 - JAN 7 2027 
	Mike Cloud is a Chicago-based artist who explores contemporary social and political issues through the visual language of abstraction. With an emphasis on painting, he makes mixed-media assemblages that are typically composed of stretcher bars configured into geometric shapes and universal forms with objects embedded in thick oil paint. For his Hammer Project, which will scale the facade of the lobby wall, Cloud will present three large, “loosely abstracted portraits,” including two forthcoming commissioned works, collaged from paper grocery bags, magazine advertisements, cash, and other printed materials. Alongside the portraits, Cloud will exhibit works from Painted Clothing (2007–8), a series of collages fashioned from children’s clothing, which comments on the relationship between consumer culture and childhood through visual signifiers such as dragons, fairies, and rainbows. Both series speak to the artist’s in-depth experimentation with printmaking, sculpture, and painting across his career. This Hammer Project marks the artist’s first solo museum presentation on the West Coast.
	https://hammer.ucla.edu/exhibitions/2026/hammer-projects-mike-cloud 

	Armand Hammer Collection 
	PERMANENT EXHIBITION
	The Armand Hammer Collection features works of art from the sixteenth through the twentieth century that reflect the interest and dedication of the founder of the museum, Armand Hammer. Selections from the collection are on permanent display at the museum, offering visitors a small but distinguished group of European and American paintings, sculpture, and works on paper, with special emphasis on French art of the nineteenth century.
	https://hammer.ucla.edu/collections/armand-hammer-collection 


             
MOCA LA
General museum link: https://www.moca.org/ 
Ticket link: https://moca.ticketapp.org/portal/pages/tickets 
Admissions info: Free General Admission 
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://www.moca.org/exhibitions 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL  

	MONUMENTS
	OCT 23 2025 - MAY 3 2026
The Geffen Contemporary at MOCA
Co-organized and co-presented by MOCA and The Brick, MONUMENTS marks the recent wave of monument removals as a historic moment. The exhibition reflects on the histories and legacies of post-Civil War America as they continue to resonate today, bringing together a selection of decommissioned monuments, many of which are Confederate, with contemporary artworks borrowed and newly created for the occasion. Removed from their original outdoor public context, the monuments in the exhibition will be shown in their varying states of transformation, from unmarred to heavily vandalized.
https://www.moca.org/exhibition/monuments 

Haegue Yang: Star-Crossed Rendezvous
FEB 24 2026 - AUG 2 2026
	MOCA Grand Avenue
	Haegue Yang (b. 1971, Seoul; lives in Seoul and Berlin) is known for large-scale installations that employ utilitarian objects. Motivated by the generative power of abstraction, Yang choreographs immersive encounters with light, color, and sound, creating heightened sensory environments that communicate beyond language. Her works often draw on specific historical narratives and figures, yet these sources remain mostly concealed. Through what the artist describes as “incubated abstraction,” historical references function as latent structures for the work, creating a porous relationship between past and present where new possibilities emerge.

Star-Crossed Rendezvous brings together two major installations executed using customized venetian blinds, a window treatment designed with adjustable angled slats that filter light and structure spatial relationships. This material has been central to Yang’s practice since the mid-2000s, allowing the artist to engage with the viewer’s perception and movement. Made nearly a decade apart, these markedly different works appear as two halves of an imperfect whole, foregrounding Yang’s interest in asymmetry and doubling, both recurring principles in her practice.
	https://www.moca.org/exhibition/haegue-yang 

	Michael Asher 
	FEB 24 2026 - AUG 2 2026
	MOCA Grand Avenue
	Over a career spanning six decades, Michael Asher (1943–2012) played a pivotal role in developing conceptual art through site-specific interventions that made their surrounding context the active content of his work. Asher’s interrogations of these sites reveal the many ways art can critique and make visible the often unseen social, economic, and institutional structures that underpin the subjects it addresses.
This focused survey presents twenty works via their material elements, documentation, and an accompanying exhibition guide. While many of Asher’s projects left no trace, “fragments” exist for some, including distributed objects (household items, games, clothing, maps, and postcards) that were designed to circulate publicly. His practice also employed a broad range of twentieth-century media and utilized their conventions of production and distribution—including film, television, radio, magazines, publications, advertising, and graphic identities. Among his many engagements with institutions, Asher intervened in branding and signage, patronage, as well as educational and curatorial responsibilities.
Produced for a specific time and place, Asher’s work intrinsically questions both the possibility and value of retrospective display. This exhibition draws on documentation and other resources from the artist’s extensive archive, alongside loans from friends and peers. While much of Asher’s work cannot be reconstituted, his wide-reaching methods and models offer pathways for understanding art’s relationship with broader systems of meaning.
	https://www.moca.org/exhibition/michael-asher 

	Good on Paper: Works from the Gene J. and Betye M. Burton Acquisitions Endowment
	FEB 24 2026 - AUG 2 2026
	MOCA Grand Avenue
	Founded in 1992, the Gene J. and Betye M. Burton Acquisitions Endowment, dedicated exclusively to the acquisition of works on paper, has been integral to the development of MOCA’s collection. This unique and enduring gift was rooted in the belief that works on paper can and should be seen as independent, ambitious works of art in their own right. Today, it encompasses pastels, collages, graphite drawings, prints, and watercolors by artists including Lee Bontecou, John Cage, Cynthia Hawkins, Kahlil Robert Irving, Christine Sun Kim, Barry Le Va, Lee Lozano, Ree Morton, Nancy Rubins, Atsuko Tanaka, Joey Terrill, and Hannah Wilke. Good on Paper not only provides insight into the centrality of drawing to contemporary art, it also pays tribute to the Burton Family, who have played a key role at MOCA since the very beginning, contributing extraordinary insight, energy, and support to virtually every aspect of the museum’s life.
	https://www.moca.org/exhibition/good-on-paper 

	Gifts of Michael Asher 
	FEB 24 2026 - AUG 2 2026
	MOCA Grand Avenue 
	One of the most significant gifts to MOCA from an artist was made by Michael Asher, who donated thirty-five works from his personal collection to the museum. The works date from the late 1940s to the late 1970s, and many were produced or exhibited in Los Angeles. Underscoring the artist’s enduring impact on the institution’s history, this exhibition presents selections from Asher’s donation including works by Larry Bell, Vija Celmins, Judy Chicago, Tony DeLap, Marcel Duchamp, Joe Goode, Al Hansen, Donald Judd, Stephen Kaltenbach, Michael C. McMillen, Claes Oldenburg, Ken Price, and Man Ray.
	https://www.moca.org/exhibition/gifts-of-michael-asher 

	The Expanding Field: MOCA’s Collection from the 1940s to 1970s
	APR 18 2026 - SEP 20 2026 
	MOCA Grand Avenue 
	Drawing from MOCA’s world-renowned, ever-growing collection of nearly 8,000 objects , this exhibition focuses on artworks dating from the 1940s to the 1970s and demonstrates the collection’s historical depth, commitment to artistic experimentation, and global awareness. Featuring recent acquisitions alongside beloved artworks that have long been mainstays of MOCA’s collection, highlights include a gallery dedicated to the abstract expressionist canvasses of Mark Rothko, an oil by Luchita Hurtado from the artist’s 'I Am' series that belongs to the Mohn Art Collective, as well as paintings, sculptures, and work in all media by figures including Piet Mondrian, On Kawara, Robert Rauschenberg, Betye Saar, and Anne Truitt, among others. Selections from the Collection provides insight into art practice in the decades immediately preceding MOCA’s founding in 1979 and an outlook informed by the diverse cultures of Los Angeles.
	https://www.moca.org/exhibition/the-expanding-field 


                                                                             
  - Seattle: 
Seattle Art Museum  
General museum link: https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/ 
Ticket link: https://secure.seattleartmuseum.org/?_gl=1*5b7fdx*_gcl_au*MjA0NDMwMzExMi4xNzc2ODAxMTI5*_ga*MjA3NjQ2NDAxNS4xNzc2ODAxMTI5*_ga_B463MMFH88*czE3NzY4MDExMjgkbzEkZzEkdDE3NzY4MDExMjgkajYwJGwwJGgw 
Admissions info:		Advance	Day of
SAM Members		Free		Free
Adults				$29.99	$32.99
Seniors (65+)		$24.99	$27.99
Military (w/ID) 		$24.99	$27.99
Student (w/ID)		$19.99	$22.99
Teens (15-19)		$19.99	$22.99
Children (14 & Under)	Free		Free
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/art-and-artists/sams-collection 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL   

	Beyond Mysticism: The Modern Northwest
	MAR 5 2026 - AUG 2 2026
	Special Exhibition
	Inspired by the region’s natural beauty and rapidly changing city, this exhibition showcases artists who told the raw story of Seattle in the 20th century. By sharing the Pacific Northwest’s perspective through trending art styles—including Social Realism, Surrealism, and Abstract Expressionism—these artists offered a unique take on Modernist art and challenged the “mystic” label ascribed to their works.
Spearheading the movement were local icons Mark Tobey, Kenneth Callahan, Guy Anderson, and Morris Graves—but the range and breadth of Pacific Northwest art goes beyond the “Big Four” of the Northwest School. Featuring more than 150 pieces, this exhibition showcases works that investigate the complexities of daily life in the region. Whether applying an ecocritical lens or producing dreamy and uncanny visuals, these artists expressed the duality of the natural world and city life to warn of the environmental and social impacts of industrialization. 
From Malcolm Roberts to Kenjiro Nomura, learn how Northwest artists applied their regional perspective to broader artistic developments to create a new form of American Modernism.
https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/whats-on/exhibitions/beyond-mysticism-the-modern-northwest 

	
DRIFT: Meadow
	MAR 13 2026 - APR 11 2027
	Art’s capacity to delight and to make you curious is a characteristic trait of the Netherlands-based studio DRIFT, founded in 2007 by Dutch artists Lonneke Gordijn (born 1980) and Ralph Nauta (born 1978). The duo leads a multidisciplinary team that creates experiential sculptures, installations, and performances.
Meadow consists of a mesmerizing array of animated flowers suspended high above the ground. In nature, weather and changing environments necessitate adaptability for all living things. Flowers, for example, respond to the light of the sun. In DRIFT’s inverted meadow, the flowers gently open and close in response to the viewer, who takes the place of the sun. The colors of the flowers are inspired by the shades of the local flora, making each installation special and specific to its location.
	https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/whats-on/exhibitions/drift-meadow 

	
Samantha Yun Wall: What We Leave Behind
	FEB 5 2026 - OCT 4 2026
	Third Floor Galleries
	Samantha Yun Wall’s new paintings use overlapping silhouettes of female figures as portals to unknown spaces and different temporal realms. Impetus for the new body of work is a Korean folk tale in which the Pasque flower is symbolic of a grandmother who passed away without the loving care of her grandchildren. It is a story of melancholy, loss, and remembrance. The delicate hair on the flower’s stem differentiates it, and the artist gives the plant a surreal aspect in some of her paintings, replacing the flower’s center with a watchful eye.
Yun Wall has long been interested in the personal narratives of people born to Asian women and US service members during times of military occupation in Asia. The artist is mindful of the fact that these Amerasian children are stigmatized and Black Amerasians even more so. Examining cultural taboos that perpetuate secrecy and silence, she presents her figures alternately as invisible and hypervisible in stark black and white.
In past work, Yun Wall drew on ghosts, monsters, healers, and storytellers—from Korean folklore as well as science fiction—to deconstruct and reframe the stories of outcasts in dynamic compositions. While her interest in these figures continues, her new paintings and drawings have a probing and introspective quality. Wall’s silhouettes puncture time and space, allude to past and present, and point to what remains unsaid or unknown.
https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/whats-on/exhibitions/samantha-yun-wall-2024-betty-bowen-award-winner 

	
A Room for Animal Intelligence 
	NOV 28 2025 - JAN 31 2027
	Fourth Floor Galleries
	We, the animals of the world, invite you to meet with us at SAM. One hundred representatives are waiting to talk about what we see happening on our planet. A few of us share your couch, while others of us are your lunch. Some of us fly overhead and watch what you do. Others hide when they see you coming as you can be insensitive and occasionally ruthless. You might call us exotic and cute or condemn us as pests and predators, but we all have our roles to play.
Some of you recognize our intelligence. Your attention and words fill us with hope. Please consider our points of view and listen to our voices. We sing, chitter, buzz, and howl for various reasons. Take a break from reading about another AI, and come to the museum to meet the largest wolf, mouse, and mosquito you’ve ever seen. Let us remind you that we are also wonders of the world—you humans are not alone. And we abide by this suggestion: “No animal should ever jump up on the dining room furniture unless absolutely certain that he can hold his own in the conversation” (Fran Leibowitz, “Pointers for Pets,” Social Studies, 1981).
https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/whats-on/exhibitions/a-room-for-animal-intelligence 

	
Chris Kallmyer: Song Cycle
	JAN 7 2026 - JAN 9 2028
	Brotman Forum 
	Song Cycle is a kinetic sculpture featuring ever-changing poetry. Part imagined, part remembered, and part observed, the revolving text is continually inscribed and reinscribed by a 256-character split-flap readymade sign reminiscent of the arrival and departure boards seen at airports and train stations in the 20th century. In the Brotman Forum, Song Cycle serves as a bridge between this public space and SAM’s art galleries. Visitors arriving or departing might glance up and see a fragment of text that captivates them. The piece’s changing nature reflects the museum’s role as a place for evolving thought, not just static displays.
	https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/whats-on/exhibitions/chris-kallmyer-song-cycle 
	

	FriendsWithYou: Little Cloud Sky
	JUN 27 2025 - ONGOING
	Brotman Forum
	Little Cloud Sky is a new SAM commission from FriendsWithYou, the internationally celebrated duo of Samuel (Sam) Borkson and Arturo (Tury) Sandoval III. The large-scale installation will be in the museum’s Brotman Forum, its main entrance lobby and a community space that is free to the public to enjoy without a ticket to the museum. The commission was organized by José Carlos Diaz, SAM’s Susan Brotman Deputy Director for Art.
Little Cloud Sky (2025) is composed of 40 of the artists’ signature Little Cloud character, each custom made of plastic, four feet wide, and suspended from the ceiling of the Brotman Forum. The work is designed to spread positivity and inspire a sense of connection, encouraging museum visitors to reflect on the beauty of togetherness and the power of joy and nature. While versions of this interior skyscape have been displayed in cities around the world, including Las Vegas, Miami, Tokyo, and London, this is a brand-new iteration and the artists’ first long-term museum installation.
The Little Cloud character serves as a symbol of peace and connectivity and can be found throughout the artists’ work. In August 2024, London’s Covent Garden featured Little Cloud World, an installation with 40 inflatable Little Cloud characters. In January 2024, Tokyo’s Yoyogi Park hosted Little Cloud Sky, accompanied by a large-scale parade, “The Happy Dancing Rainbow Alliance,” featuring FriendsWithYou’s iconic characters.
https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/whats-on/exhibitions/friendswithyou-little-cloud-sky 
	
	
Diego Cibelli: Fiori dei Miei Habiti / La Montagne Enchantée 
	MAY 31 2024 - MAY 9 2027
	Fourth Floor Galleries
	SAM’s ornate Porcelain Room features an evocative ceiling fresco, The Triumph of Valor over Time (ca. 1757) by the greatest Venetian artist of the eighteenth century, Giovanni Tiepolo. Contemporary artist Diego Cibelli presents a site-specific response to the famous painting with a freestanding porcelain sculpture set in the center of the room. Originally painted for the Porto family palace in Vicenza, Italy, Tiepolo's design is an allegory in which Victory crowns the golden-robed figure of Valor with a laurel wreath, as Time watches helplessly from the shadows below. In response, Cibelli creates a mountainous peak in which human figures tumble down the craggy slopes, their bodies, in various states of free-fall, experience transformation into branches, leaves, and flowers—a return to nature. 
	https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/whats-on/exhibitions/diego-cibelli 

	
Ash-Glazed Ceramics from Korea and Japan
	ONGOING
	Third Floor Galleries
	This exhibition brings together 34 ceramic artworks featuring ash glaze, all drawn from the Seattle Art Museum's remarkable holdings of Japanese and Korean art. Spanning time, place, and function, the selection includes ancient Korean funerary and ritual gray wares, ancient Japanese Sue and Sanage wares, early medieval Japanese Seto wares, and large storage jars from medieval and contemporary Japan.
Exchange with peoples of the southern Korean peninsula led to the introduction of a variety of advanced technologies to the Japanese islands during the Kofun period (ca. 250–538). In the realm of pottery, highly skilled Korean makers brought both knowledge of the potter’s wheel and the technical expertise needed to create a new type of kiln now commonly known by the Japanese term anagama.
Built into a hillside with a fire fueled by wood at the lower end and a flue at the higher end, the anagama kiln fires pottery at around 1200–1400 degrees centigrade (2200–2500 F). Prior to this in Japan, pottery was fired in open or partially open trench kilns, reaching only around 800 degrees centigrade. As in Korea, the higher firing temperature resulted in stronger vessels, which replaced lower-fired wares as the standard for ceremonial and ritual purposes after the 400s. This firing environment also led to the development of natural, or “accidental,” ash glazes, created when wood ash in the kiln collects on the vessels, creating a glaze that appears greenish-yellow to deep green, sandy to glossy, and dripping to charred. Ash glazes inspire artists around the world to this day.
https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/whats-on/exhibitions/ash-glazed-ceramics-from-korea-and-japan 

	
Yirrkala: Art from Australia’s Top End
	MAY 10 2024 - ONGOING
	Third Floor Galleries
	Step into a whirlpool off the north coast of Australia. With an artist from Yirrkala as your guide, you’ll be urged to watch the water’s swirling patterns and witness the ancestral powers that lie beneath its surface. Meditations on environmental cycles and our connections to them prevail in art from Yirrkala. Living amid stingybark (eucalyptus) forests, artists use bark as canvases and local earth pigments as paint to bring sacred designs carrying ancient knowledge into view. Diamond shapes may convey fire, honey, or the turbulent water surrounding the plunge of a crocodile. In a recent innovation, artists transform discarded metal into canvases filled with glimmering fields of pattern. Moving images created by Yirrkala’s talented media artists are also on view.
	https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/whats-on/exhibitions/yirrkala 

	
American Art: The Stories We Carry
	OCT 20 2022 - ONGOING 
	Third Floor Galleries 
	SAM presents American Art: The Stories We Carry, a transformation of its American art galleries, created through an unprecedented collaboration among SAM curators and staff, artists, and advisors from the Seattle community. Funded primarily by a $1 million grant from The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, the project features work from SAM’s collection and new works and curation by contemporary artists, and it deepens the museum’s commitment to inclusive exhibition-planning practices with a shared-authorship model that reflects and responds to community knowledge.
https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/whats-on/exhibitions/American_Art_The_Stories_We_Carry 

	Lessons from the Institute of Empathy 
	MAR 31 2018 - AUG 30 2026	
	Fourth Floor Galleries
	Three Empathics have moved into Seattle Art Museum and are a central feature to the latest installation imagined in our African art galleries. The popular and immersive ChimaTEK: Virtual Chimeric Space by contemporary artist Saya Woolfalk was first shown in Disguise: Masks and Global African Art (2015). Now part of SAM’s permanent collection and installed in Lessons from the Institute of Empathy, the Empathics have surrounded themselves with works from our African art collection as a way to help visitors awaken their own empathy.
Upon entering you will experience a virtual space where you can step outside your normal, routine self and improve your ability to understand others. If you wonder about your empathic abilities, you are not alone. Empathy—the ability to understand the experiences of others—is a skill that’s said to have eroded in the modern world. The result is Empathy Deficit Disorder (EDD).
The Empathics display their trademarked process for transformation and ask you to consider the other artwork around you.
https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/whats-on/exhibitions/lessons-from-the-institute-of-empathy 

	Impressionisms: The Global Nineteenth Century
	MAR 27 2024 - ONGOING
	Fourth Floor Galleries
	The works in this gallery reveal continuities between European and American art over the course of the long 19th century, a historical period spanning from the beginning of the French Revolution in 1789 to the beginning of World War I in 1914. During this time, the rigid conventions, theoretical foundations, and elitist content of academicism were loosening their hold, threatened by a new, cosmopolitan, and more inclusive generation of artists who preferred collaboration and mutuality over the Academy’s strict hierarchical structure.
Working in networks with transnational reach, artists experimented with radical pictorial strategies, giving focus to the world around them in an adaptable, extemporaneous style loosely termed “Impressionism.” American artists such as Childe Hassam and Willard Metcalf, often working alongside French painters such as Lucien Pissarro and Claude Monet, took to the countryside and city streets to respond directly to nature and public life, while French, American, and Dutch artists alike—including Gustave Caillebotte, Mary Cassatt, Vilhelm Hammershøi, and Berthe Morisot—captured the private realm of domestic spaces. The American painter William Merritt Chase and his French counterpart Victoria Dubourg delved deeply into the minutiae of the modern world, capturing the ephemerality of ordinary victuals, flora, and other objects using little more than brushwork and color. Indeed, the story of 19th-century art is at once intimate, local, and global, shaped by observation, invention, and exchange on the part of artists active on both sides of the Atlantic.
	https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/whats-on/exhibitions/impressionisms 

	Chronicles of a Global East
	OCT 20 2022 - ONGOING
	Third Floor Galleries
	By land and by sea, the premodern global world was deeply interconnected. This exhibition narrates a few of the many stories related to the Silk Roads and maritime routes, where innumerable transnational artistic traditions emerged. A monumental deerskin map provides a commanding view of Tainan, a port city with Dutch-built fortresses and Chinese and indigenous residents. In a reversal of Chinoiserie, an imperial mirror shows Chinese palaces set within a pastoral European landscape. The blue-and-white ceramics on view recall Chinese porcelains but are in fact inventive Vietnamese commercial wares whose profitable path to market was interrupted after their transportation was shipwrecked. Each appropriation represents a claim of advantage—whether over strategic territory, in artistic and technological sophistication, or business innovation. Each also embodies curiosity, a desire for new knowledge through borrowing from the unfamiliar “other.”
https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/whats-on/exhibitions/chronicles-of-a-global-east 

	Pacific Species
	DEC 22 2022 - ONGOING
	Third Floor Galleries
	Biodiversity inspires this selection of works, encouraging us to take a break from looking at one another and instead carefully watch the other species in our midst. You’ll find ultra-tiny octopuses from Japan, an elegant local heron who sits on high alert, and a frog and whale in glass. Fish swim into view, from carps with twisting tails to a shark with a torpedo-like body. Some creatures take on mythic features, as seen in a sea serpent and a possible pig vertebrae/leaf spirit. Finally, a sawfish emerges with a signature nose that has almost led to the species’s extinction. While we savor our time watching such companions, we also know that many are endangered by our notorious arrogance and we must pay more attention to their needs.
	https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/whats-on/exhibitions/pacific-species 

	Cosmic Beings in Mesoamerican and Andean Art
	ONGOING
	Third Floor Galleries
	Over vast geographical expanses and several millennia, a mosaic of cultures developed in ancient Mesoamerica and the Andean regions of South America. Some of these diverse cultures evolved from humble agricultural communities into complex cultural centers with spectacular cities and refined arts. Each had sophisticated belief systems about the origins of the universe and the roles of all the human and supernatural beings contained within. Ritual protocols—like shamanic transformations, human alliances with animal spirit companions, and the reenactment of myths—blurred the boundaries between the human and cosmic zones.
The art in this gallery depicts ancestors, humans, gods, supernatural animals, and monsters in ceramic, stone, shell, and animal. Visual symbols and narratives seen on ceremonial vessels, tomb sculptures, and personal adornment illuminate how early peoples grappled with the fundamental questions of existence, immortality, and the nature of the universe around them.
https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/whats-on/exhibitions/Cosmic_Beings_in_Mesoamerican_and_Andean_Art 

	Art and Life Along the Northwest Coast 
	ONGOING
	Third Floor Galleries
	Over their long habitation of the Pacific Northwest, First Peoples have shaped their lifeways around the resources of the water, forests, valleys, and mountains. In tandem, they have developed rich oral traditions and ceremonies that link inextricably to this region.
https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/whats-on/exhibitions/art-and-life-along-the-northwest-coast 

	Conscious Constructions
	ONGOING
	Fourth Floor Galleries
	The objects in this gallery span hundreds of years across Europe, encompassing High Renaissance, mannerism, baroque, as well as a sprinkling of contemporary art. What most of these works offer is an invitation from the artists to observe exquisite techniques and dynamic subject matter. Figures gaze at us, communicating melancholy or mirth; objects are placed just so to act as stepping stones that help us ascend into the picture; an array of decadent goods remind one of the passing of time; and living artists pay homage to Western art history in clever ways. The artists here enjoy the recognition that they carefully assembled all their works’ elements in an intentional and pleasing way that speaks to audiences today. 
	https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/whats-on/exhibitions/conscious-constructions 
	
	Only Connect: The Art of Devotion 
	ONGOING
	Fourth Floor Galleries
	This gallery features Christian works of art from Italy and northern Europe. Most date from the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, when churches and monasteries were the primary consumers of art. Expensive materials like ground minerals and gold leaf gave early altarpieces a rich appearance suitable for the depiction of divine figures. Later, artists used the oil medium to achieve a more naturalistic appearance for holy figures, which made the figures more approachable. Despite differences in style and technique, all of the art here shares the conviction that visual imagery can foster a sacred connection.
Many of the works are fragments of larger altarpieces. With the wane of European religious institutions in the nineteenth century, altarpieces were often disassembled and their individual panels sold to satisfy a new market for early Italian painting, which prized style over religious function as a way of connecting with the past.
	https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/whats-on/exhibitions/only-connect 

	Porcelain Room
	ONGOING
	Fourth Floor Galleries
	Vast quantities of translucent, elegantly decorated white-bodied porcelain from China and Japan, arriving in Europe in the seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries, heightened Europeans’ fervor for these wondrous wares. In royal palaces, great houses of the aristocracy, and homes of the rising merchant class made wealthy by trade, specially designed rooms showcased porcelain from floor to ceiling as crowning jewels in an integrated architectural and decorative scheme.
Brimming with more than one thousand magnificent European and Asian pieces from SAM's collection, the Porcelain Room has been conceived to blend visual excitement with an historical concept. Rather than the standard museum installation arranged by nationality, manufactory, and date, our porcelain is grouped by color and theme. Today, when porcelain is everywhere in our daily lives, this room evokes a time when it was a treasured trade commodity—sometimes rivaling the value of gold—that served as a cultural, technological, and artistic interchange between the East and the West.
Some of the works on view in the Porcelain Room date back to the 17th century, but this beloved gallery at SAM has stepped into the 21st century with digital kiosks located at both entrances of the Porcelain Room. Use the interactive experience to gain a brief history of porcelain, zoom in on each of the artworks for a closer look, and read caption information, including the type of object, date, and origin.
	https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/whats-on/exhibitions/porcelain-room 

	Italian Room 
	ONGOING
	Enter into a wood-paneled room that beckons you back in time to a late 16th-century home in the northern Italian town of Chiavenna. The town's location at the juncture of two alpine trade routes gave it wealth and status as an important customs station—but also a bitterly cold and long winter. In response, wealthy families built thick-walled stone homes and often lined common rooms with wood paneling which provided both insulating warmth and beauty.
The unfinished spruce walls and carved willow decoration of the Italian Room recall the stone architecture of ancient Greece and Rome. Plain panels alternate with plasters crowned with composite capitals—a mixture of Ionic and Corinthian elements which became popular during the Renaissance. Look up, and you'll find an urn encircled by a wreath of pomegranate blossoms and fruit, associated with abundance and fertility.
The room originally would have contained a free-standing stove around which the family would gather on cold nights. The windows, fireplace, and floor are later additions.
	https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/whats-on/exhibitions/italian-room 
	
	Japanese Tea House
	ONGOING 
	Ichigo ichie—The singular experience of Japanese tea.
Preparing for a tea gathering begins with a welcoming spirit. The host arranges flowers in containers made of bamboo, clay, or metal. They place incense, food, and sweets in ceramic or lacquer vessels. They display a hanging scroll with calligraphy or a painting in a special alcove called the tokonoma. Using a careful choice of precious tools—bowls, jars, scoops, and ladles—they make and serve the tea. Every part of the arrangement is chosen with care. Materials, colors, and textures may respond to the season or the weather. An object may call to mind a feeling or story. The host's goal is to delight guests and engage all their senses. The early tea master Sen no Rikyū (1522–1591) described this as ichigo ichie, meaning "one time, one meeting"—a reminder that each gathering is its own unique experience.
The tea house in this gallery was built in Japan and then disassembled and reassembled in Seattle by Japanese carpenters in 1992. It reflects an idea called wabi, at the heart of Sen no Rikyū's approach to tea: the discovery of beauty and joy in simple and imperfect things. Thanks to the support of the Seattle Branch of Urasanke Foundation and in partnership with trained instructors from the local group Seizankai, we host tea demonstrations here throughout the year.
	https://www.seattleartmuseum.org/whats-on/exhibitions/teahouse 



                                                                              
  - Portland: 
Portland Art Museum   
General museum link: https://portlandartmuseum.org/ 
Ticket link: https://portlandartmuseum.org/tickets/ 
Admissions info:
	Members Free
	Adults $27.50
	Seniors (65+) $24.50
	Students $22.50
	Children 17 and under Free
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://portlandartmuseum.org/exhibitions/ 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL  


	David Hockney: Works from the Collections of Jordan D. Schnitzer and His Family Foundation
	FEB 14 2026 - JUL 26 2026
	In spring and summer 2026, the Portland Art Museum presents David Hockney: Works from the Collections of Jordan D. Schnitzer and His Family Foundation, celebrating one of the most influential artists of our time. The vibrant exhibition, on view February 14 – July 26, 2026, is the largest North American survey exhibition of Hockney’s work, with more than 200 colorful prints, collages, video, and photographic and iPad drawings spanning six decades of the artist’s career.
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/david-hockney/ 

	Rick Bartow: Storyteller
	NOV 20 2025 - MAY 23 2027
	Rick Bartow (1946–2016) was an artist of deep complexity, and his work reflects a complicated, passionate person who still found space for lightness and humor. Bartow’s gift as a visual storyteller takes us on a narrative journey: his self-portraits tell stories of pain, memory, and self-discovery; others reflect on his Wiyot identity, Native history and culture; and his portrayals of beings who walk on four legs, swim, or fly deftly capture their essence.	
This exhibition provides a glimpse into Rick Bartow’s extensive body of work, including paintings, works on paper, mixed-media sculpture, and his less well-known work as a musician. Short films produced by the Bartow Trusts are included to demonstrate his continuing legacy and influence within his home community.
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/rick-bartow-storyteller/ 
	

	Todd McGrain: Debut of York
	MAR 31 2026 - JAN 31 2027
	Todd McGrain’s original bust of York, the enslaved man who was the only African American member of the Lewis and Clark expedition, was secretly installed on Mount Tabor in 2021. It was placed on the pedestal where a statue of Oregonian editor Harvey Scott (1830-1910), a known racist, once stood. The surprising appearance of York, with no artist name attached to the work, brought forth a Banksy-esque spirit and added to the city’s intense dialogues around the Black Lives Matter movement and the meaning of public monuments. 	
The Portland Art Museum debuts this bronze bust of York by artist Todd McGrain. It will permanently replace the original Mt. Tabor bust, which was temporary and sustained damage. In collaboration with Oregon Contemporary, Portland State University, and the City of Portland, will offer a community survey to give Portlanders the opportunity to share their thoughts on where the bust should be placed for the long term. 
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/todd-mcgrain-debut-of-york/ 
	

	Conductions: Black Imaginings II
	JAN 6 2026 - MAY 3 2026
	Conductions: Black Imaginings II is a series of in-gallery activations that look at the ways Black performance, sound, video, and social-practice art bridge the current and future Museum space.  This iteration considers the role ephemera plays as a conduit for remembrance through the performance work of Noah Beckham, Bridgette Hickey and Miles Greenberg, along  with a piece by Nick Cave from the Museum’s collection. As a cumulative show, Beckham, Hickey and Greenberg fill the gallery through performance, leaving behind objects that remain on view until the close of the exhibition. 
https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/conductions-black-imaginings-ii/ 	
	
	
	Abstraction Since Mark Rothko
	NOV 20 2025 - NOV 20 2026	
	A companion to The Art of Mark Rothko, this exhibition presents the vitality of abstract painting in American art from Rothko’s time to the present. Rothko created abstract paintings with rich colors that filled the canvas from edge to edge. His example inspired other painters to focus exclusively on color, form, and surface in their works and avoid any representational depictions. Artists like Helen Frankenthaler, Morris Louis, and Jules Olitski found a great variety of expression in this process of underscoring the foundational elements of their paintings. This approach wasn’t limited to painting. Artists like Aaron Siskind in photography and Gertrud and Otto Natzlers in ceramics concentrated on the unique qualities of their materials to further explore the possibilities of abstraction in different artistic disciplines. 
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/abstraction-since-mark-rothko/ 


	Black Art and Experiences
	NOV 20 2025 - NOV 20 2026
	The Black Art and Experiences (B.A.E.) Galleries are a gallery floor dedicated to celebrating the breadth, depth, and vitality of Black artistic expression. They are intended to be a living, evolving platform, featuring rotating exhibitions, multimedia installations, and community-driven programs that spotlight regional, national, and global artists of the African diaspora. 
The central gallery is named after Thelma Johnson Streat (1912–1959), a Portland artist, performer, educator, and foundational creative whose work paved the way for future generations.
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/black-art-and-experiences/ 

	
	Forming Nature, Nature Formed
	NOV 20 2025 - NOV 20 2026
	The inaugural exhibition in the heart of the Rothko Pavilion speaks to the strong sense of place experienced through our connection to our natural environment. Drawn from the Asian, Native American, Northwest, and Modern and Contemporary Art collections, Forming Nature, Nature Formed features artworks in glass, clay, metal, neon, and wood that speak to the ways artists from many cultural backgrounds interpret encounters with the natural world in sculptural form. Some works reflect close observation and representation of leaves, insects, hives, and other elements that surround us. Others become abstract expressions of energy inspired by the dynamic forces around and within us. A poetic neon text by Marie Watt serves to ground us in contemplation of the kinship with the environment of the Pacific Northwest and the creatures who inhabit this space alongside us.
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/forming-nature-nature-formed/ 


	Here we are
	NOV 20 2025 - NOV 20 2026	
	Here we are surveys contemporary art from the Portland Art Museum’s collection. Featuring work across a range of media, the exhibition showcases recent acquisitions alongside signature works and reflects on the constant change and shifting narratives that mark our contemporary world and networked lives.
In the current globalized, digitized ecology, contemporary artists observe, document, and reflect. Their voices and visions imagine what is possible and tell stories that expand our knowledge. They question, prompt, and call to action, while creating both beauty and criticism. The exhibited artworks ask us to ponder these real, virtual, and imagined spaces we find ourselves inhabiting today, and the moments, thoughts, and experiences that tell us about who we are and why we are here. 	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/here-we-are/ 


	Inkling Studio: Community and Printmaking in Portland, 1981-2009
	NOV 20 2025 - NOV 8 2026
	For more than twenty-five years, Inkling Studio, a cooperative printmaking workshop, operated out of a storefront on SW Corbett Avenue. Liza Jones was the organizing force and spirit of the atelier, which soon attracted artists eager to practice their craft in a supportive, vibrant environment, who were welcome to join the group via application and portfolio review. Over the decades, Inkling Studio served more than 100 members working in a variety of printing methods. 	
A collaborative spirit animated Inkling Studio. It was not a teaching studio–artists were expected to be fully competent printmakers before they joined–but creative cooperation permeated the atmosphere. Members fondly recall the warm environment and the opportunities to watch and learn from some of the best talents in Portland. The esprit de corps is perhaps best illustrated by the six portfolios published by Inkling Studio in which members and closely allied printmakers contributed their designs.	
This exhibition celebrates the incredible contribution of Inkling Studio and its members to the vibrant art scene of Portland. Membership changed over the years, but a lasting commitment to printmaking and community endured. The Museum is proud to offer a selection of the hundreds of prints made at Inkling Studio. 
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/inkling-studio/ 


	Lisa Jarrett: Tenderhead
	NOV 20 2025 - NOV 26 2026
	In Tenderhead, Lisa Jarrett weaves together her interest in migration and tracing lost familial histories to Beauty Supply stores and salons—critical intersections of Black life. The artist’s first solo museum exhibition in Oregon features new works and site-responsive installations that activate the abundant patterns, colors, images and textures found at the Beauty Supply. She says that, “The Beauty Supply is my art supply store.” It is a site where she accesses physical materials as well as the less tangible memories activated by these materials so important to her work.
Jarrett suggests that the Beauty Supply,salon, and kitchen sink are places undeniably linked to migration and diaspora as surrogate homelands. The geographic locations, aesthetics, layout, products, customers, and economies of the Beauty Supply locate it firmly in this “in-between” place, setting it apart as a complicated site of joy,nostalgia, desire, and unmet need. Jarrett investigates how these relatively mundane places and objects function as dynamic living archives in Black communities and families that accompany us from generation to generation. Places like the Beauty Supply (as well as the people, objects, ideas, and experiences contained therein) are the foundation of the work in this exhibition. Tenderhead refers to a question that she (and many others) vividly remember being asked while getting their hair done as children: “Are you tenderheaded?” Jarrett says, “It’s a loaded question,” and this exhibition offers windows into her reply.
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/lisa-jarrett-tenderhead/ 


	Marco Brambilla: Maximalist Dreamscapes
	NOV 20 2025 - NOV 20 2026
	Heaven’s Gate (2021)
	High-definition 3D 8K video with sound, color; 5 min., 45 sec., loop
A lavish and satirical take on the silver-screen spectacle of Hollywood dreams and excesses, Heaven’s Gate both celebrates collective storytelling and satirizes saturated glamour and stereotypes. The continuously looping video ascends through the seven levels of purgatory, each stage its own unique landscape of visual samples lifted from iconic moments in cinematic history.
Anthology (2025)
Photo–montage printed on wallpaper
Anthology mirrors the way we recall films: as iconic moments, cinematic scenes and emotional cues. By intuitively forming associations between set pieces and characters, Marco Brambilla constructs a compelling “memory timeline”, a series of powerful still images that represent narrative fragments, punctuating the rhythm of cinema across genres and eras.

These curated images resonate not because of their plot context but due to their visual and emotional impact.  Chosen for their ability to stand apart, they act as pauses or reflections within the flow of a film’s narrative, exploring how singular moments in film can encapsulate entire stories. Characters and scenes become a visual grammar—pauses, interruptions, and exclamations— underscoring the evolving relationship between image, time, and viewer interpretation in cinema history.
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/marco-brambilla/ 

	Mary Henry: A Long Unbroken Line
	NOV 20 2025 - MAY 23 2027
	Mary Henry (American, 1913–2009) embraced geometry as relational to the structures and environments around us. Despite critical recognition of her work and a steady presence in exhibitions that began in 1938, her slower path as a woman artist based on the West Coast may have kept her under-recognized in the greater art world. 
Though Henry made work throughout her life, with commissions for murals and freelance assignments, she was also married and raising two children. It was not until her divorce in 1964, when she was just past 50, that she began to have more time and space for her studio practice. At that moment, Henry’s scale and ambition toward geometric, abstract painting took precedence, and she began her meditation on the infinite possibilities of geometry and color. She was also deeply interested in the Bauhaus movement. Henry continued in this manner until the age of 90, when she could no longer paint “straight lines and lift the canvases.”
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/mary-henry-a-long-unbroken-line/ 


	Paul Harris: Shut-In Suite, 1969-1970
	NOV 20 2025 - JUN 7 2026
	Shown for the first time at the Portland Art Museum, Shut-In Suite by Paul Harris takes the viewer on a voyage through the artist’s physical and imaginative surroundings. In 1969, Harris received a fellowship from the Tamarind Institute of Lithography in Los Angeles, one of the premier print ateliers in the country. While there, he conceived of his suite. He recalls, “I lived alone in a rundown LA apartment amidst my own disorder. I had not intended to make a Shut-in Suite . . . there was just no time to go out into the world. I shuttled between the apartment and the print center for three months. At the end of the second month I realized that my world was first, a crummy apartment and second, my imagination.” Reduced to his thoughts and immediate surroundings, Harris created tableaux that simultaneously express isolation as well as the beauty and magic of everyday life. Through dramatic cropping, extreme close-ups devoid of context, and compositions that hover near abstraction and decoration, Harris’s suite coalesces into a group that is dreamlike and elliptical, suggestive of memory and half-formed stories.
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/paul-harris-shut-in-suite/ 


	Pipilotti Rist: 4th Floor to Mildness
	NOV 20 2025 - JAN 29 2027
	Internationally renowned artist Pipilotti Rist presents her major installation 4th Floor to Mildness in a West Coast premiere and only second exhibition in the U.S. 
Pipilotti Rist dissolves exhibition spaces through luminous color, moving imagery, and melodic sound. 4th Floor to Mildness immerses us in a soft, aquatically inspired environment, where a film shot underwater plays across two biomorphic-shaped screens hanging from the ceiling. A soundtrack by experimental musician Soap&Skin/Anja Plaschg adds to the ambience with lyrics about dreams, love, and memories as the camera catches glimpses of floating bodies. Two projected light circles move across the room, enlightening it with visceral hues. For Rist, this light represents a “desire to turn yourself inside out.”
Rist creates conditions for visitors to come together in unconventional ways so that we might better understand our relationships to one another, our own bodies, and nature. In the gallery, raft-like beds provide a place for us to rest and share social space as we watch the projection overhead. She asks: “What happens to our perceptions when we don’t have to stand or fight gravity?” The sensation of floating may evoke a sense of returning to an elemental state. For the artist, the work “describes the fantasy of [ourselves] being an organic plant . . . and simulates our dissolution into water, mud, slime, molecules and atoms.”
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/pipilotti-rist/ 


	The Art of Mark Rothko
	NOV 20 2025 - FEB 28 2027
	This exhibition features a concise, chronological display of works by the renowned American artist Mark Rothko. The Museum’s new entrance pavilion is named in honor of the artist, who, along with his family, emigrated from Russia (present-day Latvia) in 1913 and grew up in Portland. Rothko graduated from Portland’s Lincoln High School and took his first art classes at the Museum’s school. He left Portland to attend Yale University, eventually leaving college in 1923 to settle in New York City and pursue art full time. Today, Rothko is celebrated for his important contribution to the evolution of abstract art in the mid-twentieth century.
In this presentation, visitors will take an in-depth look at eight artworks from different periods in Rothko’s career. Early representational work demonstrates his interest in representing the figure as a means to communicate universal human experiences. Paintings from the 1940s reveal his transition to abstraction, starting with Surrealism, before leaving the referential behind for good. Rothko’s embrace of color as an evocative material reaches its peak in two large scale, classic works from the 1950s. At this time, he arrives at his signature style: layered blocks of color that complicate visual perception while heightening emotion and psychological responses.
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/the-art-of-mark-rothko/ 


	Black Arts PDX at the CREATE SPACE
	NOV 20 2025 - NOV 26 2026
	Black Arts PDX  is a display of ephemera and an extended documentary trailer that foregrounds the history of the Black visual arts community in Northeast Portland. Curated by Dr. Kiara Hill, this rotating installation sheds light on the practices of key figures who were instrumental in shaping the perception of Black arts and culture in Portland. Whether utilitarian or decorative, these materials highlight ways Black artists sought to beautify the city and utilize their technical skills to address the needs of Black people. Black Arts PDX stems from a collaboration between Dr. Hill and Cultural Bearers Archive, Inc., on an archival project dedicated to preserving the unique lived experiences of Black artists and cultural workers in Portland.   
CREATE SPACE is an interactive environment within the Black Art & Experiences (BAE) galleries that invites visitors to slow down, reflect, and respond. Designed as a rest area, reading room, art studio, and community gathering space, it supports connection, creativity, and dialogue. Through artist-led programs, hands-on activities, and quiet areas for reading or reflection, visitors can engage with the Black Art and Experiences gallery in a personal, generative way. This first year, CREATE SPACE is activated alongside Conductions: Black Imaginings II, which centers Black performance art and its archives. Both spaces emphasize process — research, writing, improvisation, and experimentation — as essential to the creative journey.
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/black-arts-pdx-at-the-create-space/ 


	From the Collection: Prints by Black Artists
	NOV 20 2025 - MAY 3 2026
	This installation celebrates prints by Black artists of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries, including many recent acquisitions shown for the first time at the Portland Art Museum. The work offers stories of the Black experience in the United States, allowing visitors to trace serious issues as brutal labor practices, as in Kara Walker’s Cotton, and lynching, in Hale Woodruff’s harrowing By Parties Unknown, as well as leisure and joy, evident in the bathers of Emma Amos and Derrick Adams. 
Artistic production is another throughline. Viewers can trace the broad influence of Robert Blackburn, the founder of the influential Blackburn Print Workshop, who taught Romare Bearden, among others. Ron Adams honors Blackburn with a portrait. Although working across printmaking media, including etching, lithography, and screenprint, the artists share a commitment to graphic expression and bearing witness to the breadth of Black representation in America. 
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/from-the-collection-prints-by-black-artists/ 


	Kenji Nakahashi: Between Things
	NOV 20 2025 - NOV 20 2026
	Japanese photographer Kenji Nakahashi (1947–2017) moved to New York City in 1973, finding in the city the creative inspiration that would sustain his practice for the rest of his life. Both playful and profound, his conceptual approach to photography posed questions about everyday objects, materials, and surfaces. From the mundane, his images raise meaningful questions about the distance or difference between things, and about the relationship between parts of a whole. Alongside Nakahashi’s photographs, a selection of tea bowls by contemporary Japanese ceramicists invites viewers to consider Nakahashi’s questions in another, very different medium. All works featured in this exhibition are new acquisitions, on view for the first time.
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/kenji-nakahashi-between-things/ 


	MAKERS: The Culture of Craft
	NOV 20 2025 - NOV 20 2026
	Makers illuminates the virtuosity of maker and material in Japan. Looking across time periods, this exhibition explores the porous boundaries between art, craft, design, and labor. Works on display range from Bizen pottery to lacquerware, hanging scroll paintings to bamboo sculpture, and metalwork that straddles the line between craft and fine art. These works invite consideration of materials and technique, as well as questions of identity and mastery—the named artist and the anonymous craftsperson—as well as function and aesthetics, and the emotional power of superbly crafted objects. Featuring many new acquisitions on view for the first time, the exhibition also nods to Portland’s own maker culture, which has long made the city a destination for creatives. 
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/makers-the-culture-of-craft/ 


	Mickalene Thomas: Do I Look Like a Lady? (Comedians and Singers)
	NOV 20 2025 - NOV 20 2026
	The Portland Art Museum is pleased to present the recently acquired two-channel video installation, Do I Look Like a Lady? (Comedians and Singers), by internationally renowned artist Mickalene Thomas. Thomas’s work addresses themes of beauty and identity expressed through the myriad subjectivities of African-American women. Her multidisciplinary practice reconsiders Black womanhood and desire through a queer lens.
In recent years, Thomas has turned to video production as a way to expand her critical investigation into how mass media and entertainment distill the experiences of African-American women into a handful of archetypes. Do I Look Like a Lady? (Comedians and Singers) presents a dynamic checkerboard of moving image footage featuring African-American actors and singers from across the 20th century: from Jackie “Moms” Mabley to Eartha Kitt, Whoopi Goldberg, Whitney Houston, and several others. The video focuses on their individual voices as they express heartbreaking roles, pointed lyrics, sharp jokes, and strong statements of resistance to the dominant culture. The work is a powerful, and often riotous, reflection on the roles of Black women in the United States.
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/mickalene-thomas-do-i-look-like-a-lady/ 


	Mirror Mirror: Silver in the 20th Century
	NOV 20 2025 - NOV 20 2026
	Silver has had special status in European and world art for thousands of years. Besides coins and jewelry, silver was used for objects of practical use, and families often held their wealth in a collection of silver spoons, teapots and other items. When stainless steel, aluminum and titanium became common, the meaning of a family hoard of silver plate shifted. At the same time new industrial uses of silver were discovered, as medical antiseptic and above all, photography. Artisans still make everyday objects out of silver in new and creative ways because the soft, warm, clear and reflective surfaces have enduring appeal.  In this gallery modern silver is paired with silver print photography to demonstrate how radically the use and appreciation of silver has changed.
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/mirror-mirror/ 


	Mystic Mountain: Mount Hood in Art
	NOV 20 2025 - NOV 20 2026
	Mount Hood’s iconic form, isolated presence on the horizon, and impressive height all serve to  mark the natural monument as home for Portlanders. It has inspired generations of artists, from Childe Hassam and Albert Bierstadt, to Sekino Jun’ichirō, who recognized its affinity to Japan’s Mount Fuji when working here in the 1960s. 
In 1890, Northwest author Frederick Balch, who had extensive experience with local tribes published Bridge of the Gods, in which he claimed to tell the Native story of the mountain. His tales have never been corroborated, and in fact serve as a kind of erasure of Native knowledge. The Native peoples of the river valleys had decades prior been forcibly removed to the arid lands adjacent to the mountain, established as the Grand Ronde Reservation in 1857 and Warm Springs Indian Reservation in 1855. In Balch’s account Mount Adams and Mount Hood were sons of the Creator, and their eruptions were expressions of their rivalry for a beautiful woman. In a later theatrical production of the book, Mount Saint Helens became Loowit, Mount Adams was Pahto and famously Hood became Wy’east.
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/mystic-mountain/ 


	Myth and Memory: Mediterranean Antiquity and its Revivals
	NOV 20 2025 - NOV 20 2026
	The ancient Greeks loved wall murals and small portable paintings, but most of these have been lost over time. Instead, their art is best known from objects such as ceramic pots and vessels, excavated from rubbish heaps and graves. These ordinary household wares were produced in vast quantity, and some were even decorated by artists of extraordinary talent. Those that survive, often reconstructed from shards, continue to inspire artists and all of us with the stories and culture of ancient Greece and Rome. The stories range from the labors of Herakles to the poet Orpheus, and range in time from Greek antiquity to the age of Pablo Picasso. Here, we can see how later artists have interpreted those eternally relevant stories and themes for their own generations.
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/myth-and-memory/ 


	Shifting the Narrative: 21st Century Acquisitions
	NOV 20 2025 - NOV 20 2027
	Shifting the Narrative: 21st Century Acquisitions highlights Native American art gifts and purchases since the year 2000 at the Portland Art Museum. This broad selection showcases the diversity of the collection including historical works that represent traditional practices, as well as media such as painting, sculpture, printmaking and more. Taking cues from the work itself, the exhibition is organized by theme and media, including sections highlighting basketry, fashion, and photography. Although the collection has long been recognized for its historical works from the Northwest Coast, Plains, and Western Oregon, this exhibition shifts the narrative to a wider array of Native expression, with an emphasis on the present.
The exhibition also includes a section that traces the history of the collection from the first acquisitions of Native American art in 1918 to the present. The breadth of the program and its relationship to communities of artists, visitors, students and Native people will also be explored. As we begin to imagine the future permanent collections galleries, Shifting the Narrative honors our past and welcomes a future where tradition, innovation, and community are celebrated.
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/shifting-the-narrative/ 

	
	To Gather Your Leaving: Themes of Diasporic Experiences in the Northwest
	NOV 20 2025 - NOV 20 2026
	Covering a span of a hundred years, the Portland Art Museum’s Northwest collection represents a rich tapestry of work created from the experiences of movement, migration, displacement, hope, home, memory, and loss. As curators from diasporic experiences, exploring this theme provided us with restorative insights into the Museum’s long endeavor to reflect the range and breadth of artists in the Northwest region. 
“To Gather Your Leaving” is a quote from Ocean Vuong’s poem “Someday I’ll Love,” and it serves as a reflection on the inspiration that poetry provides to help illustrate diasporic experiences. This exhibition highlights ocean migrations, including those of the African and Asian diaspora, and those fleeing conflict. As this oceans-migration nexus grows as a result of globalization, war, and climate change, these movements and artistic moments will continue to shape our civilization and, with hope, our humanity. 
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/to-gather-your-leaving/ 


	Together
	NOV 20 2025 - NOV 20 2026
	To celebrate the reopening of the Portland Art Museum and a return to community gatherings within its many spaces, Together features photographs of people in community with one another. Drawn from the permanent collection of more than 10,000 photographs, the works span the nineteenth century to today. Many are recent acquisitions and are on view at the Museum for the first time.
Photography has been a social practice from its very beginnings. One of the earliest and most valued uses of the medium was for portraiture. Millions of daguerreotype, tintype, carte-de-visite, and cabinet-card images circulated during the second half of the nineteenth century, offering people portable, permanent likenesses of the ones they loved. As technology changed and improved, people could be photographed outside of the professional portrait studio, creating a market for candid snapshots. Twentieth-century photographers captured the many ways people interacted with one another in public places, like city streets or in the private residences filling new American suburbs. Some noted the isolation that came with modernization, while others recorded how thousands of protestors regularly joined together to demand societal change.
Today, photographers continue to capture notions of togetherness. As the world grapples with the isolation induced by technology, Together reminds us of the power of community.
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/together/ 


	2026 HeART of Portland: A Portland Public Schools K-12 Arts Showcase Visual Art Exhibition
	APR 15 2026 - SEP 20 2026
	Come see the extraordinary work of student artists in the HeART of Portland Visual Art Exhibition! This exhibition features over 100 works that highlight the diversity of arts offerings across Portland Public Schools. It also includes the collaborative art project, Windows of Our Future, inspired by the Museum’s new Rothko Pavilion and the exhibition David Hockney: Works from the Collection of Jordan D. Schnitzer and His Family Foundation. Come to the April 26 Miller Family Free Day to create your own “windows” artwork.
Thank you, Portlanders, for supporting the Arts Access Fund! Let’s celebrate the extraordinary work of student artists and over a decade of funding public school arts! 
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/2026-heart-of-portland-visual-art-exhibition/ 


	Im/Material
	NOV 20 2025 - NOV 20 2026	
	From the 1960s onward, artists engaged in a vibrant expansion of stylistic approaches, idea-driven practices, and material exploration. In some circles, they embraced the value of concepts as the foundation for their art, placing significance on the intellectual over the final appearance of the artwork. Many prized “dematerialization” and the spare, formal approach of Minimalism by moving away from the rarified media of fine art toward industrial materials and even the phenomenon of light as their subject. Dan Flavin, Joseph Kosuth, and artists of the California Light and Space group considered thought, perception, and experience to be the most important consideration for viewers.
Other artists explored the associations that arise from certain materials and images, and how these elements communicate meaning. Employing processes such as collage and assemblage, artists brought together disparate elements to suggest narratives that reflect upon personal, cultural, or historical issues. This exhibition features works by women artists, queer artists, and artists of color, many of whom emphasized physicality and expressiveness as both a counterpoint and a resonant gesture to the conceptual art of the same years, as similarities arose between the seemingly opposite artistic forms.
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/im-material/ 


	Word in Flower: Arts of Buddhism
	NOV 20 2025 - NOV 20 2026
	This exhibition highlights the Museum’s small collection of Buddhist art, most of which originates from East Asia. Featuring sculpture, calligraphy, painting, photography, and more, the exhibition explores diverse expressions of Buddhist visual culture in this region from the 6th to 21st centuries. Some of the Museum’s rarest works of sacred art, such as precious sutra fragments and representations of the Buddha and bodhisattvas, are joined by secular works on Buddhist themes from the twentieth century and recent work by living artists.
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/word-in-flower-arts-of-buddhism/ 


	A Brief History of Photography: The Landscape
	NOV 20 2025 - NOV 20 2026	
	This selection of photographs from the Museum’s collection features landscapes dating from the earliest years of the medium to the present, demonstrating some of the many ways that people have produced pictures over the years. Since photography’s introduction to the public in 1839, creators and viewers alike have celebrated photographic interpretations of the landscape.
From daguerreotypes to gelatin silver prints, to today’s digital captures printed with ink, the history of photography is marked by rapid advances in equipment and chemical processes, confirming the ongoing relationship between the photographic arts and technology. Yet many aspects of photography’s scientific and aesthetic past remain in play today. This gallery contains daguerreotypes, the earliest viable photographs, made in the 1840s as well as the 2010s.
While the landscape photographs on view here were made to capture the beauty of the natural world, some also point to critical issues such as misuse of resources and concern for the environment, as well as hidden histories. Regardless of their original purpose, the landscapes on view here tie photography to the great tradition of depicting the landscape artistically.
https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/a-brief-history-of-photography-the-landscape/ 


	Cloud Dream of the Nine: Stories of a Painting
	NOV 20 2025 - NOV 20 2026
	This exhibition focuses on a newly conserved Korean screen painting of Guunmong, or The Cloud Dream of the Nine, a popular late seventeenth-century novel. One of the best extant examples of this subject, the screen has undergone full-scale conservation treatment in Korea, restoring it to its original appearance. The exhibition explores the various stories this object has to tell: from the painting’s lively narrative to the story of how it came to the Museum, and the discoveries made through the conservation process. Ceramics and furnishings from the Joseon period (1392–1910) provide context for the setting in which genre paintings of this type may have been displayed and enjoyed in the nineteenth century. Made possible by a generous grant from the Overseas Korean Cultural Heritage Foundation, the exhibition highlights the Portland Art Museum’s international collaboration with scholars and conservators in Korea. 
https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/cloud-dream-of-the-nine-stories-of-a-painting/ 


	Heaven and Earth: Chinese Art from the Collections
	NOV 20 2025 - NOV 20 2026
Heaven and Earth spotlights powerful works of art in the Museum’s collections, spanning creative practices in China across several millennia. Historic objects and more recent works are brought into conversation, offering different perspectives on how we make meaning of the world and the diversity and creativity of Chinese artists and makers. Highlights include the Museum’s Han dynasty money tree, made of delicately filigreed bronze branches and leaves, and the Warring States period antlered tomb guardian (Zhenmushou), unique to the Chu culture. Among the highlights of more recent work by living artists is the monumental ink painting Heaven and Earth, by contemporary artist Hung Hsien, from which the exhibition takes its title.  A rare, fine-line landscape by Shen Zhou (1427–1509), one of the most famous painters of the Ming dynasty, will be displayed in sections, allowing viewers to experience this exceptional, ambitious handscroll in its entirety over successive rotations.	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/heaven-and-earth-chinese-art-from-the-collections/ 


	For the Enjoyment of All: Celebrating the Kress Gift
	OCT 8 2025 - OCT 8 2026
	In 1952, the Portland Art Museum was given a spectacular selection of European art by the Samuel H. Kress Foundation in New York. The department store magnate Samuel Kress, who had assembled a vast collection with the advice of noted scholars, decided to disperse his works among art museums in cities where his stores were located. Portland’s gift included many important early Italian works with religious subjects, which were not typically collected by US public museums at the time. This exhibition celebrates the generosity of a scholarly collector and donor, and represents the first time all of Kress’s gifts, including the works added by Kress before the gift was finalized in 1961, have ever been shown together. 
The group was not assembled unilaterally, however. The Foundation invited the Museum to propose a theme around which a gift would be assembled. Museum staff focused on the Renaissance and selected six subthemes: Unity in Narration; The Rise of Landscape Painting; Revival of Classicism; Interest in Anatomy; From Symbolism to Naturalism in Religious Art; and Portraiture. The Kress team then offered additional works and even purchased some art to give the gift more impact.
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/for-the-enjoyment-of-all/ 


	Facing Ourselves 
	JUN 11 2025 - JUN 11 2026
	Portraiture is about truth and honesty, both in how we choose to have ourselves portrayed and in how artists present their subjects. During the Renaissance, portraiture was tied to humanism, which values the individual. Artists sought to recover the art of portraiture known from Greek and Roman antiquities. We all like to embellish, however, and the Roman examples in this survey of the Museum’s European and American portraits are stylized and simplified. Maybe all portraits are about relationships and the intensity of the encounter between artist and subject. Not every portrait is a picture, however.  
This gallery features European and American art in photography, painting and sculpture. It includes epitaph inscription slabs from ancient Roman tombs, a coat of arms, and a reliquary.  The works in this gallery represent the diversity of our community as well as of our collection, and span thousands of years, and many continents and are done in many styles. They also challenge our idea of what we understand by Europe – proud Syrian Romans in togas, for example, speak to us from their tombstones, in Aramaic.
https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/facing-ourselves/ 
	

	Global Impressionism 
	JUN 11 2025 - JUN 11 2026 
	In 1874, a group of French artists organized the first exhibition of sketch-like avant-garde paintings at a private gallery in Paris. Critics gave them the unflattering label “Impressionist” because of their sketchlike works, but the artists embraced the terms and exhibited under this name for another seven shows. Their use of  broken strokes of often pure color, is often seen as typically French but in fact became a global phenomenon. This gallery celebrates this long-lasting movement and its impact, all the way to Portland. Impressionists focused on what their champion, the influential critic Charles Baudelaire, identified as modern life, and painted scenes of the harbor and coast, industry, city life, and nature.They embraced the workings of a bustling modern city as well as the rural landscape, alert to the patterns or forms of constant change they could capture with their brushes. 
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/global-impressionism/ 


	Conversations in Clay
	MAR 10 2025 - JUN 6 2027
	Conversations in Clay presents a glimpse of the diverse range of directions in contemporary ceramics in Japan. Emphasizing natural ash glazes, sculptural forms, and meticulous surface treatments, it explores the shared language linking potters in conversation. Several pioneering women artists are featured, including Koyama Kiyoko (1936–2023), a trailblazing icon of wood-fired Shigaraki ware, Matsuda Yuriko (b. 1943), known for her irreverent polychrome porcelains, and Kishi Eiko (b. 1948), famed for her laborious, colored clay inlays and geometric forms. The exhibition brings together new acquisitions, most on view for the first time, alongside works loaned from one of the premier private collections in North America. 
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/conversations-in-clay/ 


	American Land
	JAN 19 2025 - JUN 1 2026
	Landscape painting has always had a unique place in the history of American Art. Earlier settlers and colonists especially celebrated the American landscape – one that has been shaped by the stewardship of  Native peoples through the ages. For many Europeans, however, civilization, cities, and the memory of Greece and Rome were key ways of understanding the world, and the presence of Native people in the American landscape was largely dismissed. The American landscape paintings in the museum’s collection capture the full breadth of the country’s history and relationship to land from the settler’s point of view, ranging from the earliest Hudson Valley painters, to the works of Americans abroad and the urban landscape. 
Since long before colonists arrived, Native people have continued to live in communion with these same lands despite their violent displacement through the forces of colonization. This gallery includes contemporaneous works of Native art that reflect their connection to the natural world and also demonstrate how Native artists transformed what they gained through global trade into their aesthetic systems. 
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/american-land/ 


	Highest Heaven 
	JAN 19 2025 - JUN 1 2026
	The glorious saints and archangels in this gallery were made in the Americas but far from the United States. Elvin A. Duerst’s gift of works from the Spanish viceregal or colonial period in Central and South America from 1521 until the revolutions led by Simon Bolivar liberated these areas from Spanish control in 1821. Oregon-born and educated Duerst was an American foreign aid worker who spent years in Central and South America where he assembled much of his collection. This art represents a tradition rarely present in US museums but familiar to millions from Peru, Chile, Bolivia, Ecuador, Guatemala, and Mexico. The violent conquest of the Americas by Iberian powers, beginning in the sixteenth century, did not displace the peoples of the Incan and Aztec empires. Artists and artisans applied their advanced skills to the new religion of Christianity, producing an iconography and style completely new and reflective of their ancient cultures. The Duerst gift is shown here along with other examples of Ibero-American art of that period, as well as examples of pre-contact works in ceramic, textiles.
	https://portlandartmuseum.org/event/highest-heaven/ 




                                                                            
  - Denver: 
Denver Art Museum     
General museum link: https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en 
Ticket link: https://tickets.denverartmuseum.org/DateSelection.aspx?item=314&_gl=1*1ayzkj2*_gcl_au*MTQ1MTgxMzYxOC4xNzc2ODAxNTc1*_ga*NDYyNTM0NjkuMTc3NjgwMTU3NQ..*_ga_CSY07FKE1X*czE3NzY4MDE1NzUkbzEkZzEkdDE3NzY4MDE2NTckajQ5JGwwJGgw 
Admissions info:

General Admission
Colorado Residents*
Non-Residents
Adults
$22 or $25
$27 or $30
Seniors 65 & older (with ID)
$19 or $22
$24 or $27
Students, Teachers, Active Military & Veterans (with ID)
$19 or $22
$24 or $27
Youth 18 & younger
Free
Free
Members
Free
Free


Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL     

	Eyes On: Susan Wick
	APR 20 2025 - MAY 10 2026
	Hamilton Building, Level 3
	For more than six decades, Denver-based artist Susan Wick (born 1938 in Madison, Wisconsin) has made art without inhibition. Driven by a relentless curiosity, Wick conjures worlds of fantasy, intrigue, and desire. Her daring compositions and experiments with materials such as fabric, foil, and printed paper, inspire, and excite the imagination.
Eyes On: Susan Wick features 40 rarely seen paintings on paper with mixed media and collage. Wick created works like those in the exhibition around 1996 for a monthly art subscription, which she mailed to subscribers across the country. By sending her art out into the world, these dreamy and playful paintings exemplify Wick’s desire to foster community and connection.	
The exhibition also includes a selection of Wick’s artist’s books from the 1970s to the 2000s. Some books contain daily paintings using discarded books from the Denver Public Library. Others are thematic, like one that illuminates the best sources of chocolate. Often stored in suitcases for ease of transport, these artworks contain a visual lexicon of birds, flowers, domestic interiors, and human figures that find their way into the other works on view. Together, they encourage us to see the artfulness of everyday life in the objects we behold.
	https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/eyes-susan-wick 


	The Tangled Self
	Now on view
	Hamilton Building, Level 2--Precourt Family Discovery Hall
	Created by Colorado artist Sadie Young with collaborators from Spectra Art Space, The Tangled Self attempts to make our inner monsters more approachable, asking us to reflect on the question: Why is it sometimes easier to see the negative parts of self instead of embracing the positive?
Visitors can step inside the enormous mouths of towering monsters, dodge playful tube creatures, and discover hidden and unexpected surprises in this colorful yarn and fiber-based installation. The "inner monsters" of the shadow self—feelings like rage, grief, fear, and shame—are tamed as viewers are invited to face and embrace these emotions as part of healing.
https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/tangled-self 

	Painting in the Andes, 1680-1780
	Now on view
	Martin Building, Level 4
	During the colonial period in the Andes, five main centers of artistic production flourished: Bogotá, Quito, Lima, Cuzco, and Potosí. Painting in the Andes, 1680–1780 explores these regional schools as they reached their apex of creativity and innovation from the late 1600s to late 1700s. Influenced by a blend of European and Indigenous artistic traditions, these schools produced vibrant and distinctive styles of painting that continue to captivate audiences today.

Featuring works from historic DAM collections as well as loans from the extensive collection of the Carl & Marilynn Thoma Foundation, the exhibition offers a panorama of the rich cultural heritage of the Andes during this transformative period, from the more naturalistic styles prevalent in Lima to the subdued earth tones of Bogotá to the bright colors and elaborate gold detailing of Quito and Cuzco. A section on materiality introduces audiences to the surfaces—including hammered silver sheets, slabs of alabaster, and recycled canvas—on which artists produced these masterworks.
	https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/painting-andes 

	
Southwest Impressions Prints from the Barbara J. Thompson Collection
Now on view
Martin Building, Level 7
Southwest Impressions: Prints from the Barbara J. Thompson Collection, on view in the Western American Art galleries, highlights works on paper by artists who lived or traveled in the American Southwest during the late 1800s and first half of the 1900s, drawing inspiration from the region's unique landscapes, people, architecture, and animals. The exhibition celebrates Barbara J. Thompson’s collection of over 100 prints gifted to the Petrie Institute of Western American Art (PIWAA) in 2024 in honor of her grandfather, the printmaker C. A. Seward.
Southwest Impressions acknowledges the important role of printmaking in western American art, particularly during the first half of the 20th century. Presented in two rotations of around fifty prints each, visitors will be guided through a range of print processes including intaglio, block printing, lithography, and serigraphy.
https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/southwest-impressions  

	
Fuse Box: Sarah Sze
Now on view
Hamilton Building, Level 4 
Fuse Box: Sarah Sze presents a recently acquired new media art installation by internationally recognized artist and 2003 MacArthur Fellow Sarah Sze.

In Sleepers, a six-channel video installation, moving images are projected onto over 300 hand-torn paper screens suspended from parallel lines of string. Sze’s visuals of landscapes, still-lifeism and portraits celebrate the mundane and the extraordinary, the personal and the universal, the eternal and the ephemeral, exploring our relationship with an ever-changing digital world.

Since the late 1990s, Sze has created expansive and idiosyncratic sculptures that begin with fractal-like compositions and explode into architectural space. Suffusing her dynamic constellations of everyday objects and materials with moving image projections, Sze conflates physical and digital environments to bring us closer to our current reality. To create Sleepers, the artist filmed and recorded using her iPhone and culled from various online stock footage libraries. Sleepers is Sze’s first artwork with recorded and edited sound, with everyday life serving as the primary focus of her work.
https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/fuse-box-sarah-sze 
	

	The Stars We Do Not See Australian Indigenous Art
April 19, 2026–July 26, 2026
Hamilton Building, Levels 1 and 2	
The Stars We Do Not See: Australian Indigenous Art is the largest exhibition of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander art ever presented in North America. This landmark exhibition is the product of an unprecedented cultural partnership between the National Gallery of Victoria (NGV) in Melbourne and the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., and the Denver Art Museum will be its second venue.
Organized by the NGV especially for North American audiences, the exhibition features more than 130 works by 142 artists, several of whom worked collaboratively, drawn exclusively from the NGV's world-leading collection. These works are designed to elicit a sense of awe, while introducing visitors to the art, resilience, and depth of the world’s longest continuous cultures. Through a rich display of iconic masterpieces—many of which have never before left Australia—The Stars We Do Not See charts watershed moments in Indigenous art from the late 19th century to the present.
The exhibition introduces audiences to customary forms and styles in Indigenous Australian art, including the conceptual map paintings of the Central and Western Deserts, ochre bark paintings, and experimental weavings. It also highlights the work of new-media artists, who build on tradition with groundbreaking works in neon, video, and photography.
https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/stars-we-do-not-see 

	Ink & Thread Codices and the Art of Storytelling 
	Now on view
	Martin Building, Level 4
Ancient painter-scribes in Mesoamerica recorded histories, genealogies and prophecies in the pages of painted manuscripts known as codices. Ink & Thread: Codices and the Art of Storytelling explores the visual language of both ancient American codices and contemporary examples by Mexican artist Enrique Chagoya. Like the ancient examples, Chagoya’s codices feature superheroes, offer histories of conquest and survival through a wry, tongue-in-cheek lens. Printed on amate paper at Shark’s Press in Lyons, CO, Chagoya’s codices, along with graphic interventions by Eric Garcia, reclaim and amplify this ancient tradition for contemporary audiences.
The gallery additionally features the Tillett Tapestry of the Conquest of Mexico by British-American textile designer, Leslie Tillett, a monumental work that replicates scenes from surviving Central Mexican and Maya codices and recounts the Conquest of Mexico. A recent gift of Tillett’s preparatory studies provides rare insight into his extensive research process.
	https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/ink-thread 

	
What We’ve Been Up To: People
February 8, 2026–September 29, 2026
Martin Building, Level 6
What We’ve Been Up To: People showcases more than 60 photographs of people from the DAM’s collection that have not been exhibited in our galleries before.
The exhibition features a rich variety of portraits, self-portraits, and candid scenes that touch on the joys and challenges of everyday life as well as personal relationships, solitude, and the way people see themselves and each other. Works by acclaimed artists hang side-by-side with photographs by unknown and emerging artists active between the 1890s and the present day.
Individually, the pictures focus on the range of emotions and experiences that are part of life. Taken together, these photographs invite us to consider, despite our differences, all of the hopes, needs, fears, and joys that people hold in common.
https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/what-weve-been-people 
	
	
Sustained! The Persistent Genius of Indigenous Art
Now on view
Martin Building, Level 3 
Sustained! The Persistent Genius of Indigenous Art explores how Indigenous peoples’ resilience, diversity, and creativity have sustained them throughout time. The exhibition centers Indigenous voices, perspectives, and artistic expressions past and present, and is a celebration of Indigenous contributions to the arts and the museum over the past 100 years.
Sustained! was developed in conjunction with a panel of seven Indigenous community members who, through a series of meetings, shared with the museum’s Native Arts curatorial team what type of exhibition would be meaningful to themselves and their communities. This exhibition combines historic and contemporary works from DAM’s permanent collection to investigate the ways in which Native people have been sustained by beauty, by connections, and by spirituality, tracing these themes through fashion, family, ancestors, and the reasons people gather, such as games, ceremonies, and dance.
https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/sustained 
 

	Rupprecht Matthies: ¿Being Home? 
	Now on view
	Martin Building, Level 1 
Rupprecht Matthies is interested in the power of language and shared creative processes to engage and inspire communities. Drawn from the museum’s permanent collection and reconceived by the artist for installation in the Hirschfeld Atrium, ¿Being Home? is a community-generated artwork that comprises words transformed into colorful mobiles and wall pieces.
Presented in 13 languages including Arabic, English, Karenni, and Spanish, the installation reflects the lived experiences shared by diasporic populations and those forced into exile.
	https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/rupprecht-matthies-being-home 


Modern and Contemporary Art Galleries
Now on view	
Hamilton Building, Levels 3 and 4
Encompassing 16,000 square feet across two floors, the newly installed modern and contemporary art galleries feature selections from the museum’s collection of approximately 8,000 artworks made between 1900 and today, as well as from collecting areas in African arts, Indigenous arts of North America, Latin American art, photography and textile art and fashion.

Showcasing artists from around the globe, the reinstall looks anew at the work of historically recognized figures, established contemporary artists and important emerging voices. Organized by theme rather than by chronology, the reinstallation acknowledges and transcends art historical movements, showcasing visual connections and common interests.
https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/modern-and-contemporary-art-galleries 


	Arts of Africa Gallery
	Now on view
	Hamilton Building, Level 4 
	The DAM’s arts of Africa gallery showcases highlights from the museum’s collection, which encompasses about 800 objects, largely from the 19th and 20th centuries, across media—including painting, printmaking, sculpture, textiles, and jewelry, as well as recent acquisitions of contemporary art.
The updated presentation, spanning 2,300 square feet on level 4 of the Hamilton Building, centers a collection that illustrates the diversity, relevance, and dynamism of creativity and culture across Africa. For the first time the gallery presents an expansive and inclusive view of the arts from the African continent with works from the sub-Sahara, Egypt, and North Africa. The presentation is organized around three anchoring themes: the self, power and transformation, and manifestation.
Works presented include ancient and modern hair picks, ceremonial headwear, textiles, female fertility figurines, ancestor masks, spiritual text fragments, as well as recent acquisitions from contemporary artists such as Phumelele Tshabalala, Merikokeb Berhanu, and Selome Muleta.
	https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/arts-africa-gallery 


	Islands Beyond Blue Niki Hastings-McFall and Treasures from the Oceania Collection
	Now on view
	Hamilton Building, Level 3
	The arts of Oceania gallery will reopen with the presentation of a new temporary exhibition, Islands Beyond Blue: Niki Hastings-McFall and Treasures from the Oceania Collection. This presentation showcases the work of celebrated contemporary artist Niki Hastings-McFall, who will create site-specific work in conversation with works from the DAM’s Arts of Oceania collection.
This inaugural exhibition aims to dispel romantic notions of the Pacific Islands as a tourist’s paradise through a nuanced exploration of the area’s vibrant cultural landscape, challenging visitors to examine their perception of this vast and extremely diverse region. A full reinstallation of the arts of Oceania gallery, opening in 2024, will further highlight the museum’s holdings of approximately 1,000 treasures that represent the vast artistic heritage of Oceania.
	https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/islands-beyond-blue 


	Grass Scripts Bamboo Art from the Abbey Collection
	Now on view
	Martin Building, Level 5
	Grass Scripts: Bamboo Art from the Abbey Collection delves into how pioneers of modern bamboo in early 1900s Japan sought recognition for their millennia-long tradition as art rather than as craft.
Through modern innovations of form and technique, lyrical titles, and signatures, these masters of bamboo brought their own hands—wrote their own selves—into the bamboo work of art. This exhibition was made possible thanks to the generous gift of bamboo art from Arthur and Diane Abbey.
	https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/grass-scripts 


	Conversation Pieces Stories from the Fashion Archives
	February 15, 2026–February 7, 2027
Martin Building, Level 6
Conversation Pieces: Stories from the Fashion Archives features more than 60 unique designs from the DAM’s own fashion collection, most of which have never been shown before.

Through intimate groupings and striking juxtapositions that place pieces in dialogue with each other, discover connections between visionary designers, cultural movements, and the evolution of iconic fashion houses. The exhibition also shines a spotlight on Denver’s own fashion legacy, from the city’s pioneering donors to the department stores that championed American design and helped define a distinctly modern aesthetic.

Historic treasures from the DAM’s collection include a 1930s Jean Lanvin gown donated by Mrs. Gio Ponti; an afternoon dress dating to 1905-1910 worn by inventor Ms. May Wilfley; and a 1935 silk velvet evening wrap by Italian designer Maria Monaci Gallenga worn by Mrs. Thomas Patterson Campbell of The Rocky Mountain News family. These pieces will be displayed alongside recent acquisitions including a John Galliano dress from his Spring/Summer 1993 Olivia and Filibuster collection; an Alexander McQueen dress from the legendary designer’s final Plato Atlantis collection; and a lace ensemble by Karl Lagerfeld for Chloé worn by supermodel Kate Moss on the Fall/Winter 1993–94 runway.
	https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/conversation-pieces 


	Space is the Place Art & Design in the Atomic Age
	Now on view
	The Kirkland
	Space is a place where designers and artists find endless inspiration. The Space Age ignited a collective fascination with the stars, inspiring bold visions of the future. The exhibition Space Is the Place: Art & Design in the Atomic Age navigates an era when artists and designers turned their gaze skyward, channeling the optimism, anxiety, and curiosity that defined the mid-20th century.
Fueled by rapid technological advancements and the thrill of space exploration, the era gave rise to visionary forms, from sleek plastic furnishings to dynamic compositions. Discover the Space Age through a dynamic display of furniture, accessories, painting, and sculpture, revealing the cosmos as the ultimate muse.
	https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/space-place 


	‘Round the Clock 24 Hours of Colorado in Prints
	Now on view
	The Kirkland
	How can one capture the Colorado experience? From the majestic landscape to scenes of everyday life, artists here have been depicting our colorful and unique stories since before the territory became a state in 1876. Printmaking has a long history in Colorado, and because prints can be reproduced in large numbers, the medium makes the work of its creators available to a wider audience.
In 'Round the Clock: 24 Hours of Colorado in Prints, we look at an imaginary day in the life of Colorado through the eyes of printmakers, one hour at a time. The media and techniques are as varied and diverse as the people and places they represent.
	https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/round-clock 


	A Century of Art in Latin America 
	Now on view
	Martin Building, Level 4
	A Century of Art in Latin America, a comprehensive survey of Latin American art throughout the past 100 years, is the latest exhibition in the Fox Gallery in the Latin American Art galleries. Featuring works by iconic historical figures such as Diego Rivera and Roberto Matta to contemporary trailblazers like Alexander Apóstol and Tessa Mars, the exhibition encompasses an array of styles, time periods, nationalities, and mediums.
From soaring mountains and scorching deserts to sprawling forests and splendid beaches, Latin America is a vast place. As a concept, it tries to contain cultures and landscapes with millennia of differing histories under one name. Works that artists from Latin America created during the 20th and current 21st century showcase a range of practices as complex as the places they call home. While previous exhibitions have centered around a single art movement, such as Surrealism or Abstraction, A Century of Art in Latin America will offer a broader and more inclusive exploration of the rich and varied artistic trends across the region.
	https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/century-art-latin-america 


	The Kirkland Galleries
	Now on view
	The Kirkland
	The Kirkland galleries encompass the entire main floor of the yellow and gold-clad building at 12th Avenue and Bannock. The collection spans three main areas of focus: the work of Vance Kirkland, international decorative arts, and fine art by Colorado artists.
The second collection is an assemblage of international decorative arts—objects made to be used—spanning the Arts & Crafts Movement in the late 1880s to Postmodern design from the end of the twentieth century. Visitors can "time travel" through about 150 years of design, primarily from North America and Europe. Over time, art and design celebrate the newest, most rebellious, and cutting-edge ideas. This progression through time generally reflects a path toward greater simplification and abstraction.
Paintings, prints, sculptures, and ceramics by Colorado artists form the third collection. Ranging from the mid-1800s to the present, this collection includes many of Vance Kirkland’s colleagues and students, founders of the Denver Art Museum, and many other examples from realism to pure abstraction.
	https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/kirkland-galleries 
	

	By Design Stories and Ideas Behind Objects
	Now on view
	Martin Building, Level 2
	Design is all around us. Whether in objects and spaces, images and interactions, or systems and processes, design shapes our lives in fundamental ways. But what shapes design?
Located in the Amanda J. Precourt Galleries of the Martin Building, By Design: Stories and Ideas Behind Objects features a series of thematic installations drawn from the museum's expansive architecture and design collection. Showcasing over 300 works, the ongoing exhibition highlights the abundance and versatility of creative approaches, exploring how objects come into being, who brings them to life, and how they respond to societal needs and global trends.
Organized by theme rather than chronology, By Design offers diverse explorations of material, form, production, and conceptual expression, from the transformative role of plywood in modern furniture to how nature’s beauty and complexity inspire innovative objects. The motivations behind design are as diverse as its creators, as seen in the ways contemporary designers in Mexico blend ancient traditions, colonial influences, and artisanal techniques to bridge the past and present, and designers from Africa and its diaspora draw on rich histories to create furniture that harmonizes cultural heritage with contemporary life.
With evolving thematic presentations, By Design provides a dynamic and ever-changing experience, encouraging visitors to discover, consider, and enjoy new stories and connections on each visit. By assembling works from different time periods and places, the exhibition fosters a deeper understanding of design’s role in shaping our world and invites reflection on our personal relationships with the objects that surround us.
https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/by-design-stories-and-ideas-behind-objects 
	

	Arts of the Ancient Americas Galleries 
	Now on view
	Martin Building, Level 4
The reinstalled Frederick & Jan Mayer Galleries showcase the Denver Art Museum’s renowned Latin American Art and Arts of the Ancient Americas collections through a presentation of more than 1,000 rare works that present the expansive history of artistic creation in Latin America. The breadth of these collections, among the most comprehensive in the United States, encompass 3,500 years of art and culture, revealing trends, relationships, and discontinuities between art created in the region.
The Arts of the Ancient Americas collection encompasses the area from the southwestern United States to the tip of present-day Argentina beginning in 2000 B.C.E. This reinstallation focuses on three major geographic zones: Mesoamerica, Central America, and the Andes. While the collection primarily focuses on objects produced prior to the arrival of Europeans, the gallery incorporates several contemporary works that engage with ancient practices and materials, highlighting connections between past and present.
This new presentation considers the conceptual threads that continue to link many of these communities despite environmental, linguistic, and cultural differences: the role of the land or environment on worldview, the continued impact of the ancient past on contemporary communities, and the economic and cultural connections that brought ancient communities together: land, legacy, and trade.
	https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/arts-ancient-americas-galleries 


	Latin American Art Galleries
	Now on view
	Martin Building, Level 4
	The Frederick & Jan Mayer Galleries showcase the Denver Art Museum’s renowned Latin American Art and Art of the Ancient Americas collections through a presentation of more than 1,000 rare works that present the expansive history of artistic creation in Latin America. The breadth of these collections, among the most comprehensive in the United States, encompass 3,500 years of art and culture, revealing trends, relationships, and discontinuities between art created in the region.
The Latin American Art gallery offers insights into more than five centuries of the shared stories of conquered and conquerors, and the arts that originated from a colonial situation of great complexity, featuring more than 3,000 works from Mexico, Central and South America, the Caribbean, and the Southwestern United States. Drawing on the museum’s remarkable holdings, for the first time a gallery will be exclusively devoted to the artistic developments that emerged after the independence from European rule in the 1820s, a time when the search for national identity and aspirations of cosmopolitanism dominated the arts.
The John and Sandy Fox Modern and Contemporary Latin American Art gallery is dedicated to the museum’s acquisitions of modern and contemporary Latin American art, bridging the cultural narratives of the present and future and portraying a region in constant evolution.
	https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/latin-american-art-galleries 


	Northwest Coast and Alaska Native Art Galleries
	Now on view
	Martin Building, Level 2 
	The Denver Art Museum’s Northwest Coast and Alaska Native arts collection, a strength within the renowned collection of the Indigenous Arts of North America, is on view in a reimagined, immersive gallery space that showcases works by Indigenous artists from the western coastal region of North America, stretching from Puget Sound to southeastern Alaska. Featuring more than 80 objects, the gallery presents a range of artists and creative histories from the region, emphasizin individual artists as creators while also tracing the ongoing continuum and dynamic innovation of Indigenous artists into the present day. Expanding upon this approach, visitors have the opportunity to explore several spaces that highlight the communities and places that ground artists and their practices.
The Northwest Coast gallery is organized into thematic groupings that explore the rich histories, cultures, and artistic creativity of the region’s Indigenous communities. On view are objects that demonstrate the ways in which Indigenous artists encode their works with cultural knowledge, and that highlight the concepts of community and place. The gallery also incorporates immersive and architectural elements, underscoring the importance of ceremonial space to those cultures.
The Alaska Native gallery space spotlights the work of artists from this region, with a focus on the reciprocal relationship between Indigenous peoples and the land and the animals that inhabit it. Objects on view include protective garments made from animal skins, fur, and intestines, reflecting concepts of regeneration and transformation that inform many Alaska Native worldviews and ways of living. Tracing the way in which these elements continue to inform present practices, the installation includes work by contemporary artists who honor relationships with land and animals by using local materials. Works and insights by featured artists, including Sonya Kelleher-Combs, bring Indigenous voices to the visitor experience.
https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/northwest-coast-and-alaska-native-art-galleries 

	
European Art Before 1800 Galleries
Now on view
	Martin Building, Level 6 
	The Denver Art Museum’s Davis W. Moore Galleries dedicate nearly 7,000 square feet to European art before 1800, featuring approximately 65 works drawn from the museum’s collection of European art to present a chronological history through major themes. The installation traces the development of stylistic themes as they evolved over time, from the golden surfaces of Christian altarpieces of the 1300s and 1400s, to the grand and dramatic portraits of the 1600s, and the ideal landscapes of the late 1700s.
The new gallery presentation is enhanced by the inclusion of select works from the Berger Collection, a group of notable British artworks gifted to the museum in 2018 by the Berger Collection Educational Trust. This significant gift enhances the breadth and depth of works in the museum’s European collection and enables revitalized narratives in the galleries, which now tell new stories about the evolution of European art from the Medieval through the Early Modern periods.
https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/european-art-before-1800-galleries 


	Western American Art Galleries
	Now on view
	Martin Building, Level 7
	The new galleries are a culmination of the Petrie Institute of Western American Art’s ambitious program and strategy. Since its founding in 2001, the Petrie Institute has become the leader in the field through scholarly research and programming including more than 18 books, 24 exhibitions, and 15 years of annual symposia.
Essential to the Petrie Institute’s evolution has been the growth of the collection through the procurement of strategic acquisitions and significant gifts. Important acquisitions include the collections of William and Dorothy Harmsen (2001) Henry C. Roath (2013), and Dr. George C. and Cathryn M. Peck (2014). The curators have also focused on diversifying the collection. These efforts have resulted in better representation of historically under-recognized perspectives, including those of women and people of color working in an array of mediums and styles. Through this acquisition strategy, the Petrie Institute is able to more holistically present the complex and inherently diverse story of Western American art.
https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/western-american-art-galleries 
 

	Arts of Asia Galleries
	Now on view
	Martin Building, Level 5
	Originating with a major gift from Mr. Walter C. Mead in 1915, the Asian art collection is one of the earliest at the Denver Art Museum. It encompasses rare and important artworks from East Asia (China, Korea, and Japan), South and Southeast Asia, and Central and West Asia. Its holdings of some 7000 objects span nearly six millennia, from prehistoric to contemporary art. The collection boasts strengths in Chinese textiles from the Qing dynasty, South and Southeast Asian sculpture, ceramics from across the region, East Asian bamboo art, as well as Japanese Edo period painting and twentieth-century prints.
The reimagined Arts of Asia galleries showcase a breathtaking display of over 800 artworks collectively tracing visible and invisible links across time and space in the arts of Asia. Masterpieces include paintings by Edo master Itō Jakuchū, Northern Wei sarcophagus bearing animals of the cardinal directions, a ninth century BCE Assyrian bas-relief, and a Chola dynasty Dancing Śiva. Interweaved throughout are works by modern and contemporary artists such as Golnaz Fathi, Xu Bing, and Hamada Shoji.
The galleries also integrate exciting educational and interactive components, from immersive audiovisual assets to the well-loved touchable Ganesha sculpture, the remover of obstacles, and bringer of good fortune.
	https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/arts-asia-galleries 


	Indigenous Arts of North America Galleries
	Now on view
	Martin Building, Level 2 and 3
	The Denver Art Museum dedicates more than 20,000 square feet of gallery space in the newly reimagined Martin Building to exhibiting its unparalleled Indigenous Arts of North America collection. Featuring more than 18,000 objects ranging from ancient Puebloan and Mississippian ceramics to 19th-century beaded garments and carved masks to cutting-edge contemporary paintings, sculpture, photography and variable media art, the DAM holds one of the most comprehensive collections from this region in existence—with particular strengths in art from the Plains and the Southwest, as well as works from the Great Lakes, Northeast, and Subarctic regions.
The debut installation features more than 500 works by artists from across the continent, curated by the museum’s Native Arts department staff with guidance from the Museum’s Indigenous Community Advisory Committee. Placing a strong emphasis on artists, the new gallery experience prioritizes Indigenous perspectives, and features an integration of contemporary and historic works.
A central Creative Zone with activities and an Artist-in-Residence space anchor the two main galleries. Labels throughout the gallery provide nuanced viewpoints on the objects from Indigenous peoples, while videos throughout the space offer first-hand accounts from artists on their creative processes. The new installation explores the inherited qualities of Indigenous artistic practice while also emphasizing the dynamism and innovation intrinsic both to the development of Indigenous contemporary art and to the perseverance of tribal cultures across time.
https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/indigenous-arts-north-america-galleries 


	The 19th Century in European and American Art Galleries 	
	Now on view
	Hamilton Building, Level 2
	View about 85 artworks from the museum’s collection by Claude Monet, Berthe Morisot, Vincent van Gogh, Paul Cézanne, Édouard Manet, Willard Leroy Metcalf, Pierre-Auguste Renoir, Childe Hassam, and others that tell a story about one of the most important times in art history.
The 1800s were a pivotal time in Europe and America, marked by incredible change and upheaval. Complex and contradictory, these 100 years witnessed the tension of opposing forces. The industrial revolution happened alongside the exaltation of unspoiled nature; political revolutions alternated with the restoration of conservative regimes and in art, the century began with a craze for antiquities and ended with a march toward abstraction, a shift so groundbreaking that there is hardly any comparison with centuries past.
The 19th Century in European and American Art features mostly French paintings and, in particular, landscapes. This is not accidental, as Paris, the capital of France, became the art center of the Western world during the 1800s, and landscape, once considered among the least prestigious genres in painting for its lack of moral content, flourished as one of the most expressive and collected subjects.
https://www.denverartmuseum.org/en/exhibitions/19th-century-european-and-american-art 

	


                                                                           
  - St. Louis: 
Saint Louis Art Museum  
General museum link: https://www.slam.org/ 
Ticket link: https://www.slam.org/hours-location-parking/ 
Admissions info: Free General Admission 
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://www.slam.org/exhibitions/ 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL

Ancient Splendor Roman Art in the Time of Trajan
MAR 14 2026 – AUG 16 2026
Entrance in Taylor Hall, East Building
Majestic marble sculptures and vivid frescoes, along with mosaics, glass vessels, and bronze artifacts, vividly chronicle life at the height of Rome’s empire in Ancient Splendor: Roman Art in the Time of Trajan. The exhibition speaks to the enduring power of art as a political and social tool, showcasing how the emperor Trajan invested in art and architecture to shape civic life in the ancient Roman world.
https://www.slam.org/exhibitions/ancient-splendor-roman-art-in-the-time-of-trajan/ 

Martine Syms: Soliloquy
MAR 20 2026 – JUN 28 2026
Gallery 301
Soliloquy offers a high-energy and critical lens on contemporary society. Martine Syms creates a complex digital landscape that highlights real-life issues, such as environmental destruction, political division, and community protest.  

This visual experience is paired with brutally honest words from the digital avatar, Kita. Kita’s World is a modern adaptation of the 1990s television show Cita’s World, which originally aired on the Black Entertainment Television Network (BET). In this updated version, following a similar format, Kita delivers hard-hitting messages that encourage viewers to reflect, acknowledge, and engage.
https://www.slam.org/exhibitions/martine-syms-soliloquy/ 

Currents 125: Blas Isasi
FEB 6 2026 – AUG 9 2026
Peper Martin Gallery 210 and Nancy and Kenneth Kranzberg Gallery 211 
Peruvian sculptor Blas Isasi creates carefully crafted sculptures in a wide range of materials and colors informed by ancient Andean cosmology and the landscape of the Peruvian desert. This exhibition focuses on the violent meeting between two radically different world views—those of the Indigenous Andeans and the colonizing Europeans—in early 16th-century Peru.

Currents 125 offers a meditated interrogation of Peru’s complex and layered history. Isasi does not romanticize Andean culture but rather suggests that it might offer alternative models for a troubled present. The exhibition’s central installation consists of two large, angular steel sculptures animated by rocklike shapes coated with sand; carved bones with hair extensions; and small, highly detailed, and colorful forms. The installation embodies the cultural hybridity resulting from the encounter between Andean and European cultures. The presence of hair and bone, with their sacred meanings in Andean culture, suggests that objects can be vessels for spirits. The second space features a Chincha Inka balance from the Saint Louis Art Museum’s collection, which was used to weigh objects in a pre-Hispanic barter economy. It is surrounded by sandstone sculptures with aluminum foil pieces, which resemble Andean metal artifacts and, again, suggest a spiritual presence. Across the gallery is another scale; on one side are mutilated aluminum fingers, embodying colonial violence and on the other is a balancing weight of one kilogram, a reference to the metric system as an archetypal symbol of science in the Western Enlightenment.
https://www.slam.org/exhibitions/currents-125-blas-isasi/ 


Aymara Weavings: The Indigenous Andes
JAN 30 2026 – SEP 13 2026
Carolyn C. and William A. McDonnell Gallery 100
Aymara Weavings: The Indigenous Andes presents exceptional weavings by Aymara artists and related works from the Central Andes. Dating primarily to the 18th and 19th centuries, these skirts, mantles, and ponchos demonstrate how artists in Bolivia maintained and reinvented ancient artistic practices to express Indigenous identities during the colonial era. 

While pattern and form vary considerably across type, the textiles in this exhibition share a number of characteristics. Each design reflects the vertical structure of the warp yarns, made from exceptional hand-spun and -dyed fibers harvested from camelids such as alpaca and vicuña. 

Showcasing select works from a 2018 gift of art by Paul and Elissa Cahn, Aymara Weavings will offer visitors the chance to engage more deeply with the technically sophisticated and historically rich practice of warp-faced weaving among the Aymara.  
https://www.slam.org/exhibitions/aymara-weavings-the-indigenous-andes/ 





  8 SF/NYC Galleries							3 permanently closed                                                                                                                                                                                          
Jessica Silverman
General museum link: https://jessicasilvermangallery.com/ 
Admissions info: FREE
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://jessicasilvermangallery.com/exhibitions/ 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL
Fraenkel Gallery
General museum link: https://fraenkelgallery.com/ 
Admissions info: FREE
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://fraenkelgallery.com/exhibitions 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL
Haines Gallery
General museum link: https://www.hainesgallery.com/ 
Admissions info: FREE
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://www.hainesgallery.com/exhibitions/ 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL
Catharine Clark Gallery
General museum link: https://cclarkgallery.com/ 
Admissions info: FREE
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://cclarkgallery.com/exhibitions/current/ 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL
Rena Bransten Gallery
General museum link: https://renabranstengallery.com/ 
Admissions info: FREE
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://renabranstengallery.com/exhibitions/ 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL                                                                                  
                                     

                                                                             
  10 NYC Galleries                                                                          
Gagosian NY
General museum link: https://gagosian.com/ 
Admissions info: FREE
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://gagosian.com/exhibitions/ 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL
Pace NY
General museum link: https://www.pacegallery.com/galleries/new-york/ 
Admissions info: FREE
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://www.pacegallery.com/exhibitions/ 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL
David Zwirner
General museum link: https://www.davidzwirner.com/ 
Admissions info: FREE
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://www.davidzwirner.com/exhibitions 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL
Hauser & Wirth NY
General museum link: https://www.hauserwirth.com/locations/10073-hauser-wirth-new-york-22nd-street/ 
Admissions info: FREE
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://www.hauserwirth.com/hauser-wirth-exhibitions/?date=current 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL
Gladstone Gallery
General museum link: https://gladstonegallery.com/ 
Admissions info: FREE
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://gladstonegallery.com/exhibitions/ 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL
Lehmann Maupin
General museum link: https://www.lehmannmaupin.com/ 
Admissions info: FREE
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://www.lehmannmaupin.com/exhibitions 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL
Lisson Gallery
General museum link: https://www.lissongallery.com/ 
Admissions info: FREE
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://www.lissongallery.com/exhibitions 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL
Marian Goodman Gallery
General museum link: https://www.mariangoodman.com/ 
Admissions info: FREE
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://www.mariangoodman.com/exhibitions/ 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL
Paula Cooper Gallery
General museum link: https://www.paulacoopergallery.com/ 
Admissions info: FREE
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://www.paulacoopergallery.com/exhibitions 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL
Matthew Marks Gallery         
General museum link: https://matthewmarks.com/ 
Admissions info: FREE
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
https://matthewmarks.com/exhibitions/current 
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL





TODO per venue:
General museum link:
Ticket link:
Admissions info:
Exhibits (current, upcoming, past - if available):
Name of exhibit
Dates
Location
About
URL



