It’s easy to believe that love should feel extraordinary because movie marketing is far too good. When I used to wonder what “in love” looked like, I had concluded on the Hollywood basis, that in-love people met in Viennese tram cars or shared Casablanca evenings over cigarettes and coffee. This might sound hyperbolic, but I actually believed that the truest loves were somehow Shakespearean; in some way tragic or scandalous or wonderfully metaphoric.

Thankfully by now, I think I’ve grown the wisdom to amend that previous misconception.

My thesis today is that love isn’t about how extraordinary it starts out or how fantastic it becomes. I want to believe that love involves us in some way, whether it be a choice or a verb or an expression. I want to believe that loving someone isn’t defined by tropes or coincidences; that it’s not about loving the circumstances or the encounters. I want to believe that loving someone is simply about loving them—the person.

…

Predictably, it is difficult to see a person with such honesty in the early stages of a relationship. In the beginning, we will be curious and excited by the novelty of information they reveal to us. It will probably feel easy to spend time with the other person because their unfamiliarity keeps us hungry for more. And as we unpack more of who they are, we will fall trap to reifying only their best parts, making out an idyllic and “rose-tinted” version of a person to play out our cinematic fantasies. Our infatuation might be satiated by the newness of it all, which will certainly feel more interesting because we like to cherry-pick the details that interest us the most.

And yet, when I see people who are in love, I don’t see people who are choosing to stay together because of how interesting they are, or how fun or cool the other person appears to be. I see curiosity, in a very different way; a kind of curiosity that isn’t fueled by the intrigue or anticipation of unknowns. Which leads me to the question, what is it then? After the butterflies fly away and nervousness isn’t exciting anymore, where do we go?

The truth is, I can’t say I know this too well from my own experience. But I can make a hypothesis (on the tenable premise of my thesis) that the next destination, and arguably the most important one, is friendship. Specifically, a friendship of the utmost care, priority, and interest in the other person, built on things we already know how to do in other relationships. What in-love people have, I think, is a shared life made for people who find unending comfort in one another—in their shared routines, their dinner dates, the places they frequent on weekends, the songs they listen to in the car on repeat—which they’ll call “our” songs, “our” restaurants, “our” spots, etc. To love is to be interested in their life with the way that you live yours; which will start to change naturally when you let love happen to you. The hard truth is that without this organic overlapping, your butterfly moments (no matter how passionate) will stay just that—moments. And to be in-love, requires so much more than moments. To be in-love is to care about their state of mind, their fluctuations, their quirks, the good, the bad, the everything.

Even if a person feels perfect in the beginning, people will change and our standards will change; what we need and what we want will change; it’s inevitable. I want to believe that love isn’t about finding the person who perfectly meets my standards or fulfills my romantic imaginations—all of which can change tomorrow. I want to believe that love is about finding the person that you commit to loving the most, a person that you try to understand and empathize with more deeply than anyone else and vice versa. Good standards should allow both people to understand and love each other more richly; it should help people find the person that they can love best and in turn, can best love them.

Maybe the reason we couldn’t find love is because we never found real familiarity in each other; we kept each other at a distance that felt safe from pressure or disappointment or expectations. It seemed like by remaining elusive to each other, we could hold on to our future potential and anticipate something bigger to happen. Maybe it was because we weren’t clear about what we needed—our wants, our frustrations, our hopes—we were just confused about it all. And maybe that kept us from ever falling in love. It was just the idea of that, extraordinary feeling, that kept us on our feet, wandering aimlessly towards a depthless and lukewarm countenance. 

We can’t fault ourselves for the circumstance we lost ourselves to. But I pray we never fall for the same illusion again. Maybe we both recognized the good parts of each other, and listened, dishonestly, to the intuition of those feelings—falsely convinced of “good love from good people.” It wasn’t a lack of thrill or passion that failed us. We just weren’t ready to admit to the ordinary parts of loving another person—things I now recognize as being the most beautiful.

All that said, I don’t think love is unspecial or unextraordinary or mundane; not at all. Because to choose to love someone exactly as they are, to focus on the good before the bad, to love them over and over again, I think—this, is the most extraordinary thing to ever happen.

And that is the kind of love I want to have. 
